Bulbasaur
For some time after its birth, it grows by taking nourishment from the seed on its back.

Ivysaur
When the bud on its back starts swelling, a sweet aroma wafts to indicate the flower’s coming bloom.

Venusaur
After a rainy day, the flower on its back smells stronger. The scent attracts other Pokémon.

Charmander
The fire on the tip of its tail is a measure of its life. If the Pokémon is healthy, its tail burns intensely.

Charmeleon
In the rocky mountains where Charmeleon live, their fiery tails shine at night like stars.

Charizard
It is said that Charizard’s fire burns hotter if it has experienced harsh battles.

Squirtle
It hides in its shell to protect itself, then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity.

Wartortle
It is said to live 10,000 years. Its furry tail is popular as a symbol of longevity.

Blastoise
The jets of water it spouts from the rocket cannons on its shell can punch through thick steel.

Caterpie
It releases a stench from its red antennae to repel enemies. It grows by molting repeatedly.

Metapod
A steel-hard shell protects its tender body. The Pokémon quietly endures hardships while awaiting evolution.

Butterfree
It loves the nectar of flowers and can locate flower patches that have even tiny amounts of pollen.

Weedle
It eats its weight in leaves every day. It fends off attackers with the needle on its head.

Kakuna
While awaiting evolution, it hides from predators under leaves and in nooks of branches.

Beedrill
Its best attack involves flying around at high speed, striking with poison needles, then flying off.

Pidgey
It is docile and prefers to avoid conflict. If disturbed, however, it can ferociously strike back.

Pidgeotto
It flies over its wide territory in search of prey, downing it with its highly developed claws.

Pidgeot
By flapping its wings with all its might, Pidgeot can make a gust of wind capable of bending tall trees.

Rattata
It’s cautious in the extreme, and its hardy vitality lets it live in any kind of environment.

Raticate
It whittles down its constantly growing fangs by gnawing on hard things. It can chew apart cinder block walls.

Spearow
It flaps its small wings busily to fly. Using its beak, it searches in grass for prey.

Fearow
It has the stamina to fly all day on its broad wings. It fights by using its sharp beak.

Ekans
It sneaks through grass without making a sound and strikes unsuspecting prey from behind.

Arbok
The pattern on its belly is for intimidation. It constricts foes while they are frozen in fear.

Pikachu
Brilliant Diamond: It lives in forests with others. It stores electricity in the electric sacs on its cheeks.
Shining Pearl: If it looses crackling power from the electric sacs on its cheeks, it is being wary.

Raichu
Brilliant Diamond: It turns aggressive if it has too much electricity in its body. It discharges power through its tail.
Shining Pearl: It can loose 100,000-volt bursts of electricity, instantly downing foes several times its size.

Sandshrew
To protect itself from attackers, it curls up into a ball. It lives in arid regions with minimal rainfall.

Sandslash
It curls up, then rolls into foes with its back. Its sharp spines inflict severe damage.

Nidoran♀
While this Pokémon does not prefer to fight, even one drop of the venom it secretes from its barbs can be fatal.

Nidorina
When it senses danger, it raises all the barbs on its body. These barbs grow more slowly than Nidorino’s.

Nidoqueen
Its entire body is armored with hard scales. It will protect the young in its burrow with its life.

Nidoran♂
It scans its surroundings by raising its ears out of the grass. Its toxic horn is for protection.

Nidorino
It has a violent disposition and stabs foes with its horn, which oozes venom upon impact.

Nidoking
One swing of its mighty tail can snap a telephone pole as if it were a matchstick.

Clefairy
Brilliant Diamond: Thought to live with others on quiet mountains, it is popular for its adorable nature.
Shining Pearl: Moonlight gathers on the wings on Clefairy’s back, allowing Clefairy to fly. This Pokémon is difficult to find.

Clefable
Brilliant Diamond: Rarely seen by people, it is said to be drawn by the full moon to play at deserted lakes.
Shining Pearl: Its hearing is so acute it can hear a pin drop over half a mile away. It lives on quiet mountains.

Vulpix
It controls balls of fire. As it grows, its six tails split from their tips to make more tails.

Ninetales
Its nine tails are said to be imbued with a mystic power. The Pokémon is said to live for 1,000 years.

Jigglypuff
When it wavers its big, round eyes, it begins singing a lullaby that makes everyone drowsy.

Wigglytuff
Its fine fur feels sublime to the touch. It can expand its body by inhaling air.

Zubat
Brilliant Diamond: Even though it has no eyes, it can sense obstacles using ultrasonic waves it emits from its mouth.
Shining Pearl: Disliking sunlight, it sleeps deep in forests and caves until sundown.

Golbat
Brilliant Diamond: It loves the blood of humans and Pokémon. It flies around at night in search of neck veins.
Shining Pearl: Once it starts sucking blood, it does not stop until it is full. It flies at night in search of prey.

Oddish
It often plants its root feet in the ground during the day and sows seeds as it walks about at night.

Gloom
The nectar it drools from its mouth smells so atrocious that it can make noses curl from more than a mile away.

Vileplume
Its petals are the largest in the world. As it walks, it scatters extremely allergenic pollen.

Paras
Mushrooms named tochukaso grow on its back. They grow along with the host Paras.

Parasect
Brilliant Diamond: Parasect is controlled by a mushroom that has grown larger than its host’s body. The Pokémon scatters poisonous spores.
Shining Pearl: It is controlled by the mushroom, which has grown larger than the bug body. It is said to prefer damp places.

Venonat
Its big eyes are actually clusters of tiny eyes. At night, its kind is drawn by light.

Venomoth
It flutters its wings to scatter dustlike scales. The scales leach toxins if they contact skin.

Diglett
This Pokémon lives underground. Because of its dark habitat, it is repelled by bright sunlight.

Dugtrio
Its three heads move alternately, driving it through tough soil to depths of over 60 miles.

Meowth
It is nocturnal by nature. If it spots something shiny, its eyes glitter as brightly as the shiny object.

Persian
It is a very haughty Pokémon. Among fans of Persian, the size of the jewel in its forehead is a topic of much talk.

Psyduck
Brilliant Diamond: If its usual headache worsens, it starts exhibiting odd powers. It can’t remember doing so, however.
Shining Pearl: It never remembers using its odd powers, so it always tilts its head in puzzlement.

Golduck
Brilliant Diamond: This Pokémon lives in lakes. It swims faster than any world-class swimmer.
Shining Pearl: The flippers of its well-developed limbs give it shocking speed. It is the best swimmer among Pokémon.

Mankey
It lives in treetop colonies. If one member of the group becomes enraged, the whole colony rampages for no reason.

Primeape
It becomes angry if it sees an opponent’s eyes and gets angrier if the opponent runs. Even after it beats the opponent, it is still angry.

Growlithe
It is a Pokémon with a loyal nature. It will remain motionless until it is given an order by its Trainer.

Arcanine
Its proud and regal appearance has captured the hearts of people since long ago.

Poliwag
Its skin is so thin, its internal organs are visible. It has trouble walking on its newly grown feet.

Poliwhirl
The spiral pattern on its belly subtly undulates. Staring at it gradually causes drowsiness.

Poliwrath
With its extremely tough muscles, it could keep swimming in the Pacific Ocean without resting.

Abra
Brilliant Diamond: It sleeps for 18 hours a day. Even when awake, it teleports itself while remaining seated.
Shining Pearl: Even while asleep, it maintains a telepathic radar. It teleports when it is threatened.

Kadabra
Brilliant Diamond: If one is nearby, an eerie shadow appears on TV screens. Seeing the shadow is said to bring bad luck.
Shining Pearl: When it uses its psychic power, it emits strong alpha waves that can ruin precision instruments.

Alakazam
Brilliant Diamond: Its superb memory lets it recall everything it has experienced from birth. Its IQ exceeds 5,000.
Shining Pearl: Its highly developed brain is on par with a supercomputer. It can use all forms of psychic abilities.

Machop
Brilliant Diamond: It hefts a Graveler repeatedly to strengthen its entire body. It uses every type of martial arts.
Shining Pearl: Its muscles never cramp however much it trains. It lives in the mountains away from humans.

Machoke
Brilliant Diamond: Machoke’s boundless power is very dangerous, so it wears a belt that suppresses its energy.
Shining Pearl: It can lift a dump truck with one hand. Using that kind of strength, it helps people do heavy jobs.

Machamp
Brilliant Diamond: It punches with its four arms at blinding speed. It can launch 1,000 punches in two seconds.
Shining Pearl: It can knock a train flying with a punch. However, it is terrible at delicate work using its fingers.

Bellsprout
It prefers hot and humid environments. It is quick at capturing prey with its vines.

Weepinbell
This Pokémon has the appearance of a plant. It captures unwary prey by dousing them with a toxic powder.

Victreebel
In its mouth, it pools a fragrant nectar-like fluid. The fluid is really an acid that dissolves anything.

Tentacool
Brilliant Diamond: Its body is mostly composed of water. It shoots strange beams from its crystal-like eyes.
Shining Pearl: It drifts in sea currents. Countless fishers are hurt by its poison stingers.

Tentacruel
Brilliant Diamond: With 80 tentacles for ensnaring victims, it prevents escape until the prey is weakened by poison.
Shining Pearl: It alerts others to danger by stridently flashing the red orbs on its head.

Geodude
Brilliant Diamond: Many live on mountain trails and remain half-buried while keeping an eye on climbers.
Shining Pearl: It is impossible to distinguish from rocks. It slams against others in contests of toughness.

Graveler
Brilliant Diamond: Graveler make their homes on sheer cliff faces that have numerous holes in them.
Shining Pearl: It tumbles down slopes, heedless of any body parts chipping off. It eats a ton of rocks daily.

Golem
Brilliant Diamond: It sheds its hide once a year. Its boulder-like body is so tough, even dynamite can’t harm it.
Shining Pearl: It tumbles down mountains, leaving grooves from peak to base. Stay clear of these grooves.

Ponyta
Brilliant Diamond: About an hour after birth, Ponyta’s fiery mane and tail grow out, giving the Pokémon an impressive appearance.
Shining Pearl: Its legs grow strong while it chases after its parents. It runs all day in fields and on mountains.

Rapidash
Brilliant Diamond: It gallops at nearly 150 mph. With its mane blazing ferociously, it races as if it were an arrow.
Shining Pearl: It has astounding acceleration. From a standstill, it can reach top speed within 10 steps.

Slowpoke
Although slow, it is skilled at fishing with its tail. It does not feel pain if its tail is bitten.

Slowbro
Though usually dim-witted, it seems to become inspired if the Shellder on its tail bites down.

Magnemite
The units at its sides generate electromagnetic waves that keep it airborne. It feeds on electricity.

Magneton
A Magneton is actually three Magnemite linked by magnetism. A group of these Pokémon can set off a magnetic storm.

Farfetch’d
It can’t live without the stalk it holds. That’s why it defends the stalk from attackers with its life.

Doduo
The brains in its two heads appear to communicate emotions to each other with a telepathic power.

Dodrio
When Doduo evolves into this odd breed, one of its heads splits into two. This Pokémon runs at nearly 40 mph.

Seel
This Pokémon lives on icebergs. It uses the sharp point on its head to break up ice as it swims in the sea.

Dewgong
In snow, the pure white coat covering its body obscures it from predators.

Grimer
It was born when sludge in a dirty stream was exposed to the moon’s X-rays. It appears among filth.

Muk
A toxic fluid seeps from its body. The fluid kills plants and trees immediately upon contact.

Shellder
It swims backward by opening and closing its two shells. Its large tongue is always kept hanging out.

Cloyster
It fights by keeping its shell tightly shut for protection and by shooting spikes to repel foes.

Gastly
Brilliant Diamond: This Pokémon’s body is 95 percent made up of gases. The Pokémon can be blown away by strong gusts of wind.
Shining Pearl: It’s a Pokémon born from poison gases. It defeats even the largest foes by enveloping them in gas.

Haunter
Brilliant Diamond: It can slip through any obstacle. It lurks inside walls to keep an eye on its foes.
Shining Pearl: It licks with its gaseous tongue to steal its victim’s life-force. It lurks in darkness, waiting for prey.

Gengar
Brilliant Diamond: It hides in shadows. It is said that in rooms where Gengar is hiding, the temperature drops by nearly 10 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shining Pearl: Lurking in the shadowy corners of rooms, it awaits chances to steal its prey’s life-force.

Onix
Brilliant Diamond: When it travels underground, it causes rumbling and tremors. It can move at 50 mph.
Shining Pearl: It squirms through the ground using its long and rugged body. It always eats while burrowing.

Drowzee
It can tell what people are dreaming by sniffing with its big nose. It loves fun dreams.

Hypno
Seeing its swinging pendulum can induce sleep in three seconds, even in someone who just woke up.

Krabby
It lives in burrows dug on sandy beaches. Its pincers fully grow back if they are lost in battle.

Kingler
The larger pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, it is so heavy, it is difficult to aim.

Voltorb
It looks just like a Poké Ball. It is dangerous because it may electrocute or explode on touch.

Electrode
It is known to drift on winds if it is bloated to bursting with stored electricity.

Exeggcute
Its six eggs converse using telepathy. They can quickly gather if they become separated.

Exeggutor
It is called the Walking Jungle. If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an Exeggcute.

Cubone
When it thinks of its dead mother, it cries. Its crying makes the skull it wears rattle hollowly.

Marowak
The bones it uses have been in its possession since it was born. It has a ferocious nature.

Hitmonlee
Its legs can stretch to double their length. First-time foes are startled by Hitmonlee’s extensible reach.

Hitmonchan
When Hitmonchan twists its arm while throwing a punch, the blow will pulverize even concrete. The Pokémon rests after three minutes of fighting.

Lickitung
Instead of its hands, it uses its tongue, which can stretch to twice this Pokémon’s height. Lickitung’s sticky saliva grips anything.

Koffing
Lighter-than-air gases in its body keep it aloft. The gases not only smell; they are also explosive.

Weezing
It grows by feeding on gases released by garbage. Though very rare, triplets have been found.

Rhyhorn
Its body is clad in a thick hide, and its tackles topple buildings. Unfortunately, it is not smart.

Rhydon
Its brain developed after it stood up on its hind legs. Its drill horn bores tunnels through solid rock.

Chansey
Brilliant Diamond: It is said to deliver happiness. Being compassionate, it shares its eggs with injured people.
Shining Pearl: It lays several eggs a day and won’t share them with those who have evil in their hearts.

Tangela
It is shrouded by blue vines. No one has seen the face hidden behind this growth of vines.

Kangaskhan
It raises its offspring in its belly pouch. It lets its baby out to play only when it feels safe to do so.

Horsea
It makes its nest in the shade of corals. If it senses danger, it spits black ink and flees.

Seadra
Its spines provide protection. Its fins and bones are prized as traditional medicine ingredients.

Goldeen
Brilliant Diamond: It swims elegantly by flittering its tail fin as if it were a dress. It has the look of a queen.
Shining Pearl: It swims at a steady five knots. If it senses danger, it will strike back with its sharp horn.

Seaking
Brilliant Diamond: It makes its nest by hollowing out boulders in streams with its horn. The Pokémon defends its eggs with its life.
Shining Pearl: To protect its family, it will fight with its drill-sharp horn. It lives in hollowed rocks in streams.

Staryu
If Staryu’s body is damaged, it will regenerate as long as the red core remains. The core flashes at midnight.

Starmie
At the center of its body is a red core that sends mysterious radio signals into the night sky.

Mr. Mime
Brilliant Diamond: It is a pantomime expert that can create invisible but solid walls using miming gestures.
Shining Pearl: Emanations from its fingertips solidify the air into invisible walls that repel even harsh attacks.

Scyther
It is nearly impossible to parry its attacking scythes. Its movements are like a ninja’s.

Jynx
Its cries sound like human speech. However, it is impossible to tell what it is trying to say.

Electabuzz
Half of all blackouts occur when this Pokémon appears at power plants and eats electricity.

Magmar
It was born in the crater of a volcano. Its body is covered with flames that shimmer like the sun.

Pinsir
It grips prey with its pincers until the prey is torn apart. What it can’t tear, it tosses far away.

Tauros
Once it takes aim at its prey, it makes a headlong charge. It is famous for its violent nature.

Magikarp
Brilliant Diamond: It is said to be the world’s weakest Pokémon. No one knows why it has managed to survive.
Shining Pearl: It is unable to swim against even slow-moving currents. It always splashes about for some reason.

Gyarados
Brilliant Diamond: Once Gyarados appears, its rage never settles until the Pokémon has razed the fields and mountains around it.
Shining Pearl: In ancient literature, there is a record of a Gyarados that razed a village when violence flared.

Lapras
It loves crossing the sea with people and Pokémon on its back. It understands human speech.

Ditto
It has the ability to reconstitute its entire cellular structure to transform into whatever it sees.

Eevee
It is a rare Pokémon that adapts to harsh environments by changing its appearance and capabilities when it evolves.

Vaporeon
It has evolved to be suited for an aquatic life. It can become invisible when it melts away into water.

Jolteon
It controls 10,000-volt power. When the fur covering its body stands on end, the fur is hard and sharp, like needles.

Flareon
It has a flame sac in its body. Its body temperature tops 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit before battle.

Porygon
The world’s first artificially created Pokémon. It can travel through electronic space.

Omanyte
It’s a Pokémon that was resurrected from a fossil using modern science. It swam in ancient seas.

Omastar
It is thought that this Pokémon became extinct because its spiral shell grew too large.

Kabuto
It is thought to have inhabited beaches 300 million years ago. It is protected by a sturdy shell.

Kabutops
It is thought that this Pokémon came onto land because its prey adapted to life on land.

Aerodactyl
It’s a Pokémon that roamed the skies in the dinosaur era. Its teeth are like saw blades.

Snorlax
Brilliant Diamond: Its stomach can digest any kind of food, even if it happens to be moldy or rotten.
Shining Pearl: It stops eating only to sleep. It doesn’t feel full unless it eats nearly 900 pounds a day.

Articuno
This legendary bird Pokémon can create blizzards by freezing moisture in the air.

Zapdos
This legendary Pokémon is said to live in thunderclouds. It freely controls lightning bolts.

Moltres
It is one of the legendary bird Pokémon. Its appearance is said to indicate the coming of spring.

Dratini
It is called the Mirage Pokémon because so few have seen it, but its shed skin has been found.

Dragonair
If its body takes on an aura, the weather changes instantly. It is said to live in seas and lakes.

Dragonite
It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides wrecked ships to shore.

Mewtwo
Mewtwo was created by recombining Mew’s genes. It’s said to have the most savage heart among Pokémon.

Mew
Because it can use all kinds of moves, many scientists believe Mew to be the ancestor of Pokémon.

Chikorita
It uses the leaf on its head to determine the air’s temperature and humidity. It loves to sunbathe.

Bayleef
The buds that ring its neck give off a spicy aroma that perks people up.

Meganium
Its breath has the fantastic ability to revive dead plants and flowers.

Cyndaquil
It has a timid nature. If it is startled, the flames on its back burn more vigorously.

Quilava
It intimidates foes with the heat of its flames. The fire burns stronger as it prepares to fight.

Typhlosion
It attacks using blasts of fire. It creates heat shimmers with intense fire to hide itself.

Totodile
It has a habit of biting everything with its well-developed jaws. Even its Trainer needs to be careful.

Croconaw
Once it bites down, it won’t let go until it loses its fangs. New fangs quickly grow into place.

Feraligatr
It usually moves slowly, but it goes at blinding speed when it attacks and bites prey.

Sentret
It has a very nervous nature. It stands up high on its tail so it can scan wide areas.

Furret
The mother puts its offspring to sleep by curling up around them. It corners foes with speed.

Hoothoot
Brilliant Diamond: It always stands on one foot. Even when attacked, it does not brace itself using both feet.
Shining Pearl: It switches its standing foot so quickly that the switch can’t be seen. It cries at the same time every day.

Noctowl
Brilliant Diamond: Its eyes are special. They can pick out objects as long as there is the tiniest amount of light.
Shining Pearl: If it flips its head upside down, it’s a sign that it is engaged in very complex thinking.

Ledyba
It’s so timid that it can’t move unless it’s with a swarm. It conveys its feelings through scent.

Ledian
It uses starlight as energy. When more stars appear at night, the patterns on its back grow larger.

Spinarak
It sets a trap by spinning a web with thin but strong thread. It waits motionlessly for prey to arrive.

Ariados
It attaches silk to its prey and sets it free. Later, it tracks the silk to the prey and its friends.

Crobat
Brilliant Diamond: Having four wings enables it to fly faster and more quietly. It turns active when the night comes.
Shining Pearl: This Pokémon gained vastly enhanced flying capabilities after its legs became wings.

Chinchou
It discharges positive and negative electricity from the tips of its antennae to shock its foes.

Lanturn
Lanturn’s light can shine up from great depths. It is nicknamed the Deep-Sea Star.

Pichu
Brilliant Diamond: The electric sacs on its cheeks are still small. They cannot store much electricity yet.
Shining Pearl: It plays with others by touching tails and setting off sparks. This appears to be a test of courage.

Cleffa
Brilliant Diamond: Its silhouette is like a star. It is believed to arrive riding on shooting stars.
Shining Pearl: Many appear when the night skies are filled with shooting stars. They disappear with sunrise.

Igglybuff
It has a soft and bouncy body. Once it starts bouncing, it becomes impossible to stop.

Togepi
Its shell is said to be stuffed with happiness that it shares with kindhearted people.

Togetic
It is said to appear in front of kindly people to scatter a glowing down called joy dust.

Natu
It picks food from cactus plants, deftly avoiding buds and spines. It seems to skip about to move.

Xatu
This odd Pokémon can see both the past and the future. It eyes the sun’s movement all day.

Mareep
Its fluffy coat doubles in size when static electricity builds up. Touching it can be shocking.

Flaaffy
If its coat becomes fully charged with electricity, its tail lights up. Flaaffy can fire hair that zaps on impact.

Ampharos
The tip of its tail shines brightly. In the olden days, people sent signals using the light from this Pokémon’s tail.

Bellossom
When the heavy rainfall season ends, it is drawn out by warm sunlight to dance in the open.

Marill
Brilliant Diamond: Using its tail as a float, it dives underwater. It likes eating plants that grow in riverbeds.
Shining Pearl: The tip of its tail is filled with oil that is lighter than water, so it acts as a float.

Azumarill
Brilliant Diamond: It lives in rivers and lakes. In water, its coloring and patterns trick the vision of foes.
Shining Pearl: Its long ears are superb sensors. It can distinguish the movements of living things on riverbeds.

Sudowoodo
Brilliant Diamond: Though it looks like a tree, its body is actually more like rock or stone. The Pokémon is very weak to water.
Shining Pearl: It stands along paths pretending to be a tree. If it starts raining, it seems to disappear.

Politoed
A group of Poliwag and Poliwhirl will form with a Politoed as the leader. Politoed’s cries make the Pokémon of the group obey.

Hoppip
They are blown adrift by winds. It is said that when Hoppip gather in fields and mountains, spring is on the way.

Skiploom
It blooms when the weather warms. It floats in the sky to soak up as much sunlight as possible.

Jumpluff
Blown by seasonal winds, it circles the globe, scattering cotton spores as it goes.

Aipom
Brilliant Diamond: It uses its tail to pluck fruits that are out of reach. Its tail is more adept than its real hands.
Shining Pearl: It lives atop giant trees. It wraps its tail around a branch so it won’t fall off while asleep.

Sunkern
They may suddenly fall out of the sky in the morning. In the year following a cold summer, their population explodes.

Sunflora
It gets energy from warm sunlight and is known for its habit of moving in pursuit of it.

Yanma
Its eyes can see 360 degrees without the Pokémon moving its head. It won’t miss prey—even those behind it.

Wooper
Brilliant Diamond: It lives in cold water, half burying itself in mud at the bottom to sleep.
Shining Pearl: When the temperature cools in the evening, they emerge from water to seek food along the shore.

Quagsire
Brilliant Diamond: It has a sluggish nature. It lies at the river’s bottom, waiting for prey to stray into its mouth.
Shining Pearl: A dim-witted Pokémon. It doesn’t care if it bumps its head into boats or rocks while swimming.

Espeon
Its fur has the look and feel of velvet. The orb on its forehead glows when it uses psychic power.

Umbreon
The light of the moon changed Eevee’s genetic structure. It lurks in the darkness, waiting for prey.

Murkrow
Brilliant Diamond: It is believed that seeing this Pokémon at night will bring about ominous occurrences.
Shining Pearl: It appears near travelers to lure them into deep forests. It is said to bring misfortune.

Slowking
Being bitten by Shellder gave it intelligence comparable to that of internationally recognized scientists.

Misdreavus
Brilliant Diamond: It loves to sneak up on people late at night and startle them with its shrieking cry.
Shining Pearl: It gets nourishment from fear that it absorbs into its red orbs. During the daytime, it sleeps in the shadows.

Unown
Brilliant Diamond: Because the Pokémon is shaped like ancient writing, it is a huge mystery whether written language or Unown came first.
Shining Pearl: They seem to communicate among each other telepathically. They are always found stuck on walls.

Wobbuffet
It desperately tries to keep its black tail hidden. This behavior is said to be proof that its tail hides a secret.

Girafarig
Brilliant Diamond: Its tail has a separate small brain. The tail bites to repel any foe trying to sneak up on the Pokémon from behind.
Shining Pearl: While it sleeps, the head on its tail keeps watch. The tail doesn’t need to sleep.

Pineco
It looks just like a pinecone. Its shell protects it from bird Pokémon that peck it by mistake.

Forretress
It is encased in a steel shell. Forretress’s eyes peer out, but what lies within this Pokémon’s shell is unknown.

Dunsparce
It digs into the ground with its tail and makes a mazelike nest. It can fly just a little.

Gligar
It sails on the winds with its limbs extended to strike from the sky. It aims for the prey’s face.

Steelix
Brilliant Diamond: Tempered underground under high pressure and heat, its body is harder than any metal.
Shining Pearl: It chews its way through boulders with its sturdy jaws. Its eyes can see in the darkness underground.

Snubbull
Small Pokémon flee from its scary face. It is, however, considered by many people to be cute.

Granbull
It is timid in spite of its looks. If it becomes enraged, however, it will strike with its huge fangs.

Qwilfish
It shoots the poison spikes on its body in all directions. Its round form makes it a poor swimmer.

Scizor
It has a steel-hard body. It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers.

Shuckle
It stores berries in its shell. The berries mix with its body fluids to become delicious juices.

Heracross
Brilliant Diamond: It gathers in forests to search for tree sap, its favorite food. It’s strong enough to hurl foes.
Shining Pearl: Its powerful legs and claws give it enough power to hurl foes over great distances.

Sneasel
Brilliant Diamond: It feeds on eggs stolen from nests. Its sharply hooked claws rip vulnerable spots on prey.
Shining Pearl: It is extremely vicious and will not stop attacking until its foe is incapable of moving.

Teddiursa
It lets honey soak into its paws so it can lick them all the time. Every set of paws tastes unique.

Ursaring
In its territory, it leaves scratches on trees that bear delicious berries or fruits.

Slugma
Its body is made of magma. If it doesn’t keep moving, its body will cool and harden.

Magcargo
Its body temperature is roughly 18,000 degrees Fahrenheit. Flames burst from gaps in its shell made of hardened magma.

Swinub
It loves eating mushrooms that grow under dead grass. It also finds hot springs while foraging.

Piloswine
Its shaggy coat makes it unable to see. It checks surroundings with its sensitive nose instead.

Corsola
Many live in the clean seas of the south. They apparently can’t live in polluted waters.

Remoraid
Brilliant Diamond: It squirts water forcefully from its mouth to shoot down flying prey.
Shining Pearl: It clings to Mantine to feed on the big Pokémon’s scraps. This is an adaptation to avoid foes.

Octillery
Brilliant Diamond: It lives in the gaps of boulders and in holes on the seafloor. Its suction cups grip prey tightly.
Shining Pearl: It obscures its foe’s vision by spitting a cloud of black ink. It makes its nest among boulders.

Delibird
It carries food rolled up in its tail. It has a habit of sharing food with people lost in the mountains.

Mantine
Brilliant Diamond: When the waves are calm, one may encounter a swarm of Mantine swimming as if they are in flight.
Shining Pearl: It swims elegantly, mindless of Remoraid hitching onto its broad fins. It is naturally docile.

Skarmory
Skarmory is clad entirely in ironhard armor. It flies at speeds over 180 mph.

Houndour
It conveys its feelings using different cries. It works in a pack to cleverly take down prey.

Houndoom
Long ago, people imagined its eerie howls to be the call of the grim reaper.

Kingdra
It lives in caves on the seafloor and creates giant whirlpools every time it moves.

Phanpy
It is strong despite its compact size. It can easily pick up and carry an adult human on its back.

Donphan
It attacks by curling up and rolling into its foe. It can blow apart a house in one hit.

Porygon2
With planetary development software installed, it became capable of working in space.

Stantler
Staring at its antlers creates an odd sensation as if one were being drawn into their centers.

Smeargle
It marks its territory by using its tail like a paintbrush. There are more than 5,000 different marks.

Tyrogue
It is famous for its eagerness to fight and always nurses injuries from challenging larger foes.

Hitmontop
It fights while spinning like a top. The centrifugal force boosts its destructive power by a factor of 10.

Smoochum
It tests everything by touching with its lips, which remember what it likes and dislikes.

Elekid
It generates electricity by whirling its arms. However, it can’t store the energy it makes.

Magby
Its body temperature is around 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit. It is healthy if it is exhaling yellow flames.

Miltank
It is said that kids who drink Miltank’s milk grow up to become hearty, healthy adults.

Blissey
Brilliant Diamond: This kindhearted Pokémon nurses sick Pokémon to health. It senses feelings of sadness.
Shining Pearl: It is a Pokémon that delivers happiness. Eating its egg is said to make one kind to everyone.

Raikou
It is said to have fallen with lightning. It can fire thunderbolts from the rain clouds on its back.

Entei
It is said that when it roars, a volcano erupts somewhere around the globe.

Suicune
It races around the world to purify fouled water. It dashes away with the north wind.

Larvitar
This Pokémon eats soil. Once it has eaten a large mountain, it goes to sleep so it can grow.

Pupitar
Its body is as hard as bedrock. By venting pressurized gas, it can launch itself like a rocket.

Tyranitar
If it rampages, it knocks down mountains and buries rivers. Maps must be redrawn afterward.

Lugia
It sleeps in a deep-sea trench. If it flaps its wings, it is said to cause a 40-day storm.

Ho-Oh
Its feathers are in seven colors. It is said that anyone seeing it is promised eternal happiness.

Celebi
It has the power to travel across time, but it is said to appear only in peaceful times.

Treecko
The soles of its feet are covered by countless tiny hooks, enabling it to walk on walls and ceilings.

Grovyle
It lives in dense jungles. While closing in on its prey, it leaps from branch to branch.

Sceptile
The leaves that grow on its arms can slice down thick trees. It is without peer in jungle combat.

Torchic
A fire burns inside it, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit.

Combusken
Its kicking mastery lets it loose 10 kicks per second. It emits sharp cries to intimidate foes.

Blaziken
Flames spout from its wrists, enveloping its knuckles. Its punches scorch its foes.

Mudkip
Using the fin on its head, Mudkip senses the flow of water to keep track of what’s going on around it. Mudkip has the strength to heft boulders.

Marshtomp
Its sturdy legs give it sure footing, even in mud. It burrows into dirt to sleep.

Swampert
It can swim while towing a large ship. It bashes down foes with a swing of its thick arms.

Poochyena
A Pokémon with a persistent nature, it chases its chosen prey until the prey becomes exhausted.

Mightyena
It chases down prey in a pack. It will never disobey the commands of a skilled Trainer.

Zigzagoon
It walks in zigzag fashion. It’s good at finding items in the grass and even in the ground.

Linoone
It charges prey at speeds over 60 mph. However, because it can only run straight, it often fails.

Wurmple
Brilliant Diamond: It loves to eat leaves. If it is attacked by a Starly, it will defend itself with its spiked rear.
Shining Pearl: It spits a white silk thread that turns sticky when coming into contact with air. The silk is used to immobilize foes.

Silcoon
Brilliant Diamond: It anchors itself by wrapping twigs with the silk from its body. It motionlessly awaits evolution.
Shining Pearl: It drinks dew that collects on its silk while it waits for evolution. Its hard cocoon repels attacks.

Beautifly
Brilliant Diamond: It has an aggressive nature. It stabs prey with its long, narrow mouth to drain the prey’s fluids.
Shining Pearl: When flower fields bloom, it flits around, collecting pollen. Despite its appearance, it is savage.

Cascoon
Brilliant Diamond: It is hot inside its cocoon. All the cells in its body create the energy for it to evolve.
Shining Pearl: Encased within its tough cocoon, it endures attacks. It never forgets the appearance of its foes.

Dustox
Brilliant Diamond: Dustox are nocturnal Pokémon. Drawn by streetlights, they messily eat the leaves of trees lining boulevards.
Shining Pearl: It violently flutters its wings to scatter toxic dust when attacked. It becomes active after sunset.

Lotad
It looks like an aquatic plant and serves as a ferry for Pokémon that can’t swim.

Lombre
It has a mischievous spirit. If it spots an angler, it will tug on the fishing line to interfere.

Ludicolo
If it hears festive music, all its muscles fill with energy. It can’t help breaking out into a dance.

Seedot
When it dangles from a tree branch, it looks just like an acorn. It enjoys scaring other Pokémon that try to peck at it.

Nuzleaf
The sound of its grass flute makes its listeners uneasy. It lives deep in the forest.

Shiftry
By flapping its leafy fans, it can whip up gusts of 100 feet per second that can level houses.

Taillow
It has a gutsy spirit that makes it bravely take on tough foes. It flies in search of warm climates.

Swellow
It circles the sky in search of prey and dives sharply to catch its target.

Wingull
Brilliant Diamond: It makes its nest on steep sea cliffs. Riding updrafts, it soars to great heights.
Shining Pearl: Catching sea winds with its long wings, it soars as if it were a glider. It folds its wings to rest.

Pelipper
Brilliant Diamond: It dips its large bill in the sea, then scoops up numerous prey along with water.
Shining Pearl: It acts as a delivery service by carrying small Pokémon in its bill. It bobs on the waves to rest.

Ralts
It uses the horns on its head to sense human emotions. It is said to appear in front of cheerful people.

Kirlia
It is highly perceptive of its Trainer’s feelings. It dances when it is feeling happy.

Gardevoir
It will try to guard its trusted Trainer with its life. It has the ability to see the future.

Surskit
It appears as if it is skating on water. It draws prey in with a sweet scent released from the tip of its head.

Masquerain
Its antennae have eye patterns on them. Its four wings enable it to hover and fly in any direction.

Shroomish
It spouts poison spores from the top of its head. These spores cause pain all over the body if inhaled.

Breloom
Its short arms stretch when it throws punches. Its technique is equal to that of pro boxers.

Slakoth
It spends nearly all its time in a day sprawled out. Just seeing it makes one drowsy.

Vigoroth
Its heart beats at 10 times its previous rate, so it cannot sit still for even a moment.

Slaking
It is the world’s laziest Pokémon. When it is lounging, it is actually saving energy for striking back.

Nincada
It grows underground, sensing its surroundings using antennae instead of its virtually blind eyes.

Ninjask
Because they move so quickly, they sometimes become unseeable. They congregate around tree sap.

Shedinja
It is a discarded bug shell that came to life. Peering into the crack on its back is said to steal one’s spirit.

Whismur
Usually, its cries are like quiet murmurs. If frightened, it shrieks at the same volume as a jet plane.

Loudred
The shock waves from its cries can tip over trucks. It stamps its feet to power up.

Exploud
Its howls can be heard over six miles away. It emits all sorts of noises from the ports on its body.

Makuhita
It toughens its body by slamming into thick trees. Many snapped trees can be found near its nest.

Hariyama
It loves to match power with big-bodied Pokémon. It can send a truck flying with its arm thrusts.

Azurill
Brilliant Diamond: It’s a Pokémon that lives by water. It moves quickly on land by bouncing on its big tail.
Shining Pearl: Its tail is filled with nutrients necessary for growth. It plays by bouncing on its tail.

Nosepass
Its nose is a magnet. As a result, this Pokémon always keeps its face pointing north.

Skitty
It can’t stop itself from chasing moving things, and it runs in circles, chasing its own tail.

Delcatty
It is highly popular among Trainers for its sublime fur. It does not keep a nest.

Sableye
It hides in the darkness of caves. Its diet of gems has transformed its eyes into gemstones.

Mawile
Attached to its head is a huge set of jaws formed by horns. It can chew through iron beams.

Aron
It usually lives deep in mountains. But when it’s hungry, it shows up at the foot of the mountains and eats railroad tracks and cars.

Lairon
For food, it digs up iron ore. It smashes its steely body against others to fight over territory.

Aggron
While seeking iron for food, it digs tunnels by breaking through bedrock with its steel horns.

Meditite
Brilliant Diamond: It meditates in order to build up its mental energy. It’s said to eat just one Berry a day.
Shining Pearl: It never misses its daily yoga workouts, and it heightens its spiritual power through meditation.

Medicham
Brilliant Diamond: Through yoga training, it has honed its sixth sense. Its movements are elegant.
Shining Pearl: Through daily meditation, it hones its spiritual power. It can sense what others are thinking.

Electrike
Using electricity stored in its fur, it stimulates its muscles to heighten its reaction speed.

Manectric
It discharges electricity from its mane. The Pokémon creates a thundercloud overhead from which to drop lightning bolts.

Plusle
It cheers on friends with pom-poms made of sparks. It drains power from telephone poles.

Minun
It cheers on friends. If its friends are losing, its body lets off more and more sparks.

Volbeat
It communicates with others by lighting up its rear at night. It loves Illumise’s sweet aroma.

Illumise
With its sweet aroma, it guides Volbeat to draw signs with light in the night sky.

Roselia
Brilliant Diamond: Roselia raised on clean drinking water are known to grow vividly colored flowers.
Shining Pearl: The beautiful flowers on its arms have toxic thorns. Don’t even think about picking those flowers.

Gulpin
Almost all its body is its stomach. Its harsh digestive juices quickly dissolve anything it swallows.

Swalot
It swallows anything whole. It sweats toxic fluids from its follicles to douse foes.

Carvanha
They swarm any foe that invades their territory. Their sharp fangs can tear out boat hulls.

Sharpedo
Its fangs rip through sheet iron. It swims at 75 mph and is known as the Bully of the Sea.

Wailmer
On sunny days, it lands on beaches to bounce like a ball and play. It spouts water from its nostrils.

Wailord
It’s the biggest of all Pokémon. It can dive to a depth of almost 10,000 feet on only one breath.

Numel
Its humped back stores intensely hot magma. In rain, the magma cools, slowing Numel down.

Camerupt
It has volcanoes on its back. If magma builds up in its body, it shudders, then erupts violently.

Torkoal
It burns coal inside its shell for energy. It blows out black soot if it is in a tough situation.

Spoink
It bounces constantly, using its tail like a spring. The shock of bouncing keeps its heart beating.

Grumpig
It uses black pearls to amplify its psychic power. It does an odd dance to gain control over foes.

Spinda
No two Spinda have the same pattern of spots. Their tottering steps hinder the aim of foes.

Trapinch
It makes a conical pit in desert sand and lies in wait at the bottom for prey to come tumbling down.

Vibrava
It violently shudders its wings, generating ultrasonic waves to induce headaches in people.

Flygon
It whips up sandstorms with powerful flaps of its wings. It is known as the Desert Spirit.

Cacnea
By storing water in its body, this desert dweller can survive for 30 days without water.

Cacturne
It becomes active at night, seeking prey that is exhausted from the day’s desert heat.

Swablu
Its wings are like cotton tufts. If it perches on someone’s head, it looks like a cotton hat.

Altaria
It looks like a fluffy cloud when it is in flight. It hums with its soprano voice.

Zangoose
It has feuded with Seviper for many generations. Its sharp claws are its greatest weapons.

Seviper
For many generations, it has feuded with Zangoose. It whets its bladed tail on rocks for battle.

Lunatone
It becomes active on nights with a full moon, so it is said to have some link to the lunar phases.

Solrock
This new Pokémon species is rumored to be an avatar of the sun. The Pokémon gives off light while spinning.

Barboach
Brilliant Diamond: It coats its entire body with a slimy fluid so it can squirm and slip away if grabbed.
Shining Pearl: Its whiskers make a superb radar. They are used to locate prey, even in the murkiest of water.

Whiscash
Brilliant Diamond: It is very territorial. It repels foes by setting off tremors that extend over a three-mile radius.
Shining Pearl: As a result of causing tremors by thrashing about, it developed the ability to foretell real quakes.

Corphish
Its hardy vitality enables it to adapt to any environment. Its pincers will never release prey.

Crawdaunt
It is a ruffian that uses its pincers to pick up and toss out other Pokémon from its pond.

Baltoy
It moves by spinning on its foot. It is a rare Pokémon that was discovered in ancient ruins.

Claydol
An ancient clay figurine was exposed to a mysterious ray of light, and it came to life as a Pokémon.

Lileep
It lived on the seafloor 100 million years ago and was reanimated scientifically.

Cradily
It lives in the shallows of warm seas. When the tide goes out, it digs up prey from beaches.

Anorith
This Pokémon ancestor was reanimated from a fossil. It lived in the sea and hunted with its claws.

Armaldo
It went ashore after evolving. Its entire body is clad in a sturdy armor.

Feebas
Brilliant Diamond: They are famous for their shabby appearance. Although populous, they tend to cluster in set locations.
Shining Pearl: It eats anything, so it can even live in polluted streams and lakes. No one pays any attention to it.

Milotic
Brilliant Diamond: When people bicker, it is said to arise from the depths of lakes to becalm violent hearts.
Shining Pearl: It is the world’s most beautiful Pokémon. There are many works of art featuring Milotic.

Castform
Its appearance changes with the weather. Recently, its molecules were found to be just like water.

Kecleon
It can freely change its body’s color. The zigzag pattern on its belly doesn’t change, however.

Shuppet
They love vengeful emotions and hang in rows under the eaves of houses where vengeful people live.

Banette
A doll bore a grudge over being junked, and it became a Pokémon. It seeks the child that disowned it.

Duskull
It doggedly pursues its prey wherever the prey goes. However, the chase is abandoned at sunrise.

Dusclops
Its body is hollow. It is said that those who look into its body are sucked into the void.

Tropius
Because it continually ate only its favorite fruit, the fruit started growing around its neck.

Chimecho
Brilliant Diamond: To knock foes flying, it makes the air shudder with its cries. It converses using seven cries.
Shining Pearl: Chimecho emits ultrasonic cries. It floats on the wind to travel great distances.

Absol
It senses coming disasters and appears before people only to warn them of impending danger.

Wynaut
They grow strong by pushing up against one another en masse. They love eating sweet fruit.

Snorunt
In some snowy lands, certain folklore says a house will prosper if a Snorunt lives there.

Glalie
To protect itself, it clad its body in an armor of ice, made by freezing moisture in the air.

Spheal
It rolls across ice floes to reach shore because its body is poorly shaped for swimming.

Sealeo
It habitually spins things on its nose. By doing so, it learns textures and odors.

Walrein
It shatters ice with its big tusks. Its thick blubber repels not only the cold but also enemy attacks.

Clamperl
It makes a single pearl during its lifetime. The pearl is said to amplify psychic power.

Huntail
It lives deep in the sea. With a tail shaped like a small fish, it attracts unsuspecting prey.

Gorebyss
It lives at the bottom of the sea. In the springtime, its pink body turns more vivid for some reason.

Relicanth
This rare Pokémon was discovered during a deep-sea exploration. It has not changed in over 100 million years.

Luvdisc
It lives in warm seas. It is said that couples who find this Pokémon will be blessed with eternal love.

Bagon
Dreaming of one day flying, it practices by leaping off cliffs every day.

Shelgon
Within its rugged shell, its cells have begun changing. The shell peels off the instant the Pokémon evolves.

Salamence
As a result of its long-held dream of flying, its cellular structure changed, and wings grew out.

Beldum
They converse with one another by using magnetic pulses. In a swarm, they move in perfect unison.

Metang
It is formed by two Beldum joining together. Its steel body won’t be scratched if it collides with a jet.

Metagross
Metang combined to form it. With four brains, it has the intelligence of a supercomputer.

Regirock
Its entire body is made of rock. If any part chips off in battle, Regirock attaches rocks to repair itself.

Regice
Its body is made of ice from the ice age. It controls frigid air of −328 degrees Fahrenheit.

Registeel
Tempered by pressure underground over tens of thousands of years, its body cannot be scratched.

Latias
Its body is covered with a down that can refract light in such a way that it becomes invisible.

Latios
It is a highly intelligent Pokémon. By folding back its forelegs in flight, it can overtake jet planes.

Kyogre
It is said to have widened the seas by causing downpours. It had been asleep in a marine trench.

Groudon
It had been asleep in underground magma ever since it fiercely fought Kyogre long ago.

Rayquaza
It lives in the ozone layer far above the clouds and cannot be seen from the ground.

Jirachi
It is said to wake up for just seven days every 1,000 years and use its power to grant any wish.

Deoxys
An alien virus that fell to earth on a meteorite underwent a DNA mutation to become this Pokémon.

Turtwig
Brilliant Diamond: Made from soil, the shell on its back hardens when it drinks water. It lives along lakes.
Shining Pearl: It undertakes photosynthesis within its body, making oxygen. The leaf on its head wilts if the Pokémon is thirsty.

Grotle
Brilliant Diamond: It lives along water in forests. In the daytime, it leaves the forest to sunbathe the trees on its shell.
Shining Pearl: Its shell is hardened soil. Some Pokémon come to peck the berries growing on the trees on its back.

Torterra
Brilliant Diamond: Small Pokémon occasionally gather on its unmoving back to begin building their nests.
Shining Pearl: Groups of this Pokémon migrating in search of water have been mistaken for moving forests.

Chimchar
Brilliant Diamond: It agilely scales sheer cliffs to live atop craggy mountains. Its fire is put out when it sleeps.
Shining Pearl: Its fiery rear end is fueled by gas made in its belly. Even rain can’t extinguish the fire.

Monferno
Brilliant Diamond: To intimidate attackers, it expands the fire on its tail to make itself appear bigger.
Shining Pearl: It uses ceilings and walls to launch aerial attacks. Its fiery tail is but one of its weapons.

Infernape
Brilliant Diamond: It uses a special kind of martial arts involving all its limbs. Its fire never goes out.
Shining Pearl: Its crown of fire is indicative of its fiery nature. It is beaten by none in terms of quickness.

Piplup
Brilliant Diamond: Because it is very proud, it hates accepting food from people. Its thick down guards it from cold.
Shining Pearl: It lives along the shore in northern countries. A skilled swimmer, it dives for over 10 minutes while hunting.

Prinplup
Brilliant Diamond: It lives alone, away from others. Apparently, every one of them believes it is the most important.
Shining Pearl: Its wings deliver wicked blows that snap even the thickest of trees. It searches for prey in icy seas.

Empoleon
Brilliant Diamond: The three horns that extend from its beak attest to its power. The leader has the biggest horns.
Shining Pearl: It swims as fast as a jet boat. The edges of its wings are sharp and can slice apart drifting ice.

Starly
Brilliant Diamond: They flock in great numbers. Though small, they flap their wings with great power.
Shining Pearl: Usually with a large flock, it is barely noticeable when alone. Its cries are very strident.

Staravia
Brilliant Diamond: They fly around forests and fields in search of bug Pokémon, moving together in huge flocks.
Shining Pearl: They live in forests and fields. Squabbles over territory occur when flocks collide.

Staraptor
Brilliant Diamond: It has a savage nature. It will courageously challenge foes that are much larger than itself.
Shining Pearl: The muscles in its wings and legs are strong. It can easily fly while gripping a small Pokémon.

Bidoof
Brilliant Diamond: With nerves of steel, nothing can perturb it. It is more agile and active than it appears.
Shining Pearl: It constantly gnaws on logs and rocks to whittle down its front teeth. It nests alongside water.

Bibarel
Brilliant Diamond: It makes its nest by damming streams with bark and mud. It is known as an industrious worker.
Shining Pearl: While its movements out of water are sluggish, it can swim as fast as any Feebas.

Kricketot
Brilliant Diamond: It shakes its head back to front, causing its antennae to hit each other and sound like a xylophone.
Shining Pearl: It chats with others using the sounds of its colliding antennae. These sounds are the hallmarks of fall evenings.

Kricketune
Brilliant Diamond: It crosses its knifelike arms in front of its chest when it cries. It can compose melodies ad lib.
Shining Pearl: It signals its emotions with its melodies. Scientists are studying these melodic patterns.

Shinx
Brilliant Diamond: All of its fur dazzles if danger is sensed. It flees while the foe is momentarily blinded.
Shining Pearl: Its forelegs have a muscle-based system of generating electricity. Its body shines when it is in danger.

Luxio
Brilliant Diamond: Its claws loose electricity with enough amperage to cause opponents to faint. It lives in small groups.
Shining Pearl: It rests its forelegs on others to communicate with rhythmic electric pulses from its claws.

Luxray
Brilliant Diamond: It has eyes that can see through anything. It spots and captures prey hiding behind objects.
Shining Pearl: When its eyes gleam gold, it can spot hiding prey—even those taking shelter behind a wall.

Budew
Brilliant Diamond: Over the winter, it closes its bud and endures the cold. In spring, the bud opens and releases pollen.
Shining Pearl: It lives alongside clear ponds. It scatters pollen that induces harsh sneezing and runny noses.

Roserade
Brilliant Diamond: It attracts prey with a sweet aroma, then downs it with thorny whips hidden in its arms.
Shining Pearl: With the movements of a dancer, it strikes with whips that are densely lined with poison thorns.

Cranidos
Brilliant Diamond: It lived in jungles around 100 million years ago. Its skull is as hard as iron.
Shining Pearl: It was resurrected from an iron-ball-like fossil. It downs prey with its headbutts.

Rampardos
Brilliant Diamond: Its powerful headbutt has enough force to shatter even the most durable things upon impact.
Shining Pearl: Its skull is as hard as iron. It is a brute that tears down jungle trees while catching prey.

Shieldon
Brilliant Diamond: A Pokémon that lived in jungles around 100 million years ago. Its facial hide is extremely hard.
Shining Pearl: It habitually polishes its face by rubbing it against tree trunks. It is weak to attacks from behind.

Bastiodon
Brilliant Diamond: Any frontal attack is repulsed. It is a docile Pokémon that feeds on grass and berries.
Shining Pearl: When attacked, they form a wall with their shield-like faces to protect their young.

Burmy
Brilliant Diamond: To shelter itself from cold, wintry winds, it covers itself with a cloak made of twigs and leaves.
Shining Pearl: If its cloak is broken in battle, it quickly remakes the cloak with materials nearby.

Wormadam
Brilliant Diamond: When Burmy evolves, its cloak becomes a part of its body. Wormadam’s cloak is never shed.
Shining Pearl: Its appearance changes depending on where it evolved. The materials on hand become a part of its body.

Mothim
Brilliant Diamond: It loves the nectar of flowers and steals nectar collected by Combee.
Shining Pearl: It does not keep a nest. It flies over fields and mountains in constant search of its much-beloved nectar.

Combee
Brilliant Diamond: Three Pokémon joined to become one. It busily carries sweet nectar to Vespiquen.
Shining Pearl: They collect and deliver honey to their colony. At night, they cluster to form a beehive and sleep.

Vespiquen
Brilliant Diamond: Its abdomen is a honeycomb for grubs. It raises its grubs on nectar collected by Combee.
Shining Pearl: When it is in danger, grubs from its six-cell honeycomb strike back. There is only one in a colony.

Pachirisu
Brilliant Diamond: It stores its own fur balls that crackle with static electricity together with its favorite berries in tree hollows.
Shining Pearl: It makes electricity with pouches in its cheeks and shoots charges from its tail. It lives atop trees.

Buizel
Brilliant Diamond: When air fills the flotation sac on its neck, the sac balloons like an inner tube. This Pokémon floats with its head out of the water.
Shining Pearl: It swims by rotating its two tails like a screw. When it dives, its flotation sac collapses.

Floatzel
Brilliant Diamond: It floats using its well-developed flotation sac. It assists in the rescues of drowning people.
Shining Pearl: Its flotation sac developed as a result of pursuing aquatic prey. Floatzel carries people as if it were a rubber raft.

Cherubi
Brilliant Diamond: The small ball holds the nutrients needed for evolution. Apparently, it is very sweet and tasty.
Shining Pearl: Sunlight colors it red. When the small ball is drained of nutrients and shriveled, evolution is near.

Cherrim
Brilliant Diamond: It blooms during times of strong sunlight. The Pokémon tries to make up for everything it endured as a bud.
Shining Pearl: It is docile as a bud and turns cheerful when it blooms. It folds back into a bud if sunlight wanes.

Shellos
Brilliant Diamond: Its colors and shapes differ from region to region. In the Sinnoh region, two types are confirmed.
Shining Pearl: It lives along bodies of water. Its body shape changed to suit its habitat.

Gastrodon
Brilliant Diamond: It has a pliable body without any bones. If any part of its body is torn off, it grows right back.
Shining Pearl: It apparently had a huge shell for protection in ancient times. It lives in shallow tidal pools.

Ambipom
Brilliant Diamond: To eat, it deftly shucks nuts with its two tails. It rarely uses its arms now.
Shining Pearl: They work in large colonies and make rings by linking their tails, apparently in friendship.

Drifloon
Brilliant Diamond: It is a Pokémon formed by the spirits of people and Pokémon. It loves damp, humid seasons.
Shining Pearl: It tugs on the hands of children to spirit them away. However, it gets pulled around instead.

Drifblim
Brilliant Diamond: They’re drowsy in daytime but fly off in the evening in big groups. No one knows where they go.
Shining Pearl: It carries people and Pokémon when it flies. But since it only drifts, it can end up anywhere.

Buneary
Brilliant Diamond: It slams foes by sharply uncoiling its rolled ears. It stings enough to make a grown-up cry in pain.
Shining Pearl: When it senses danger, it perks up its ears. On cold nights, it sleeps with its head tucked into its fur.

Lopunny
Brilliant Diamond: An extremely cautious Pokémon that cloaks its body with its fluffy ear fur when it senses danger.
Shining Pearl: It likes to keep itself clean and never fails to groom its ears. It runs with sprightly jumps.

Mismagius
Brilliant Diamond: Its cries sound like incantations. Those who hear it are tormented by headaches and hallucinations.
Shining Pearl: It chants incantations. While these incantations can torment targets, some bring happiness.

Honchkrow
Brilliant Diamond: Becoming active at night, it is known to form flocks with numerous Murkrow in tow.
Shining Pearl: It makes its Murkrow cronies bring it food. It idles its time away, grooming itself in its nest.

Glameow
Brilliant Diamond: It claws if displeased and purrs when affectionate. Its fickleness is very popular among some.
Shining Pearl: With its sharp glare, it puts foes in a mild hypnotic state. It is a very fickle Pokémon.

Purugly
Brilliant Diamond: It is a brazen brute that barges its way into another Pokémon’s nest and claims it as its own.
Shining Pearl: To make itself appear intimidatingly beefy, it tightly cinches its waist with its split tail.

Chingling
Brilliant Diamond: It emits cries by agitating an orb at the back of its throat. It moves with flouncing hops.
Shining Pearl: Each time it hops, it makes a ringing sound. It deafens foes by emitting high-frequency cries.

Stunky
Brilliant Diamond: It protects itself by spraying a noxious fluid from its rear. The stench lingers for 24 hours.
Shining Pearl: It sprays a nose-curling, stinky fluid from its rear to repel attackers.

Skuntank
Brilliant Diamond: It sprays a vile-smelling fluid from the tip of its tail to attack. It can fire this spray more than 160 feet.
Shining Pearl: It sprays a stinky fluid from its tail. The fluid smells worse the longer it is allowed to fester in its belly.

Bronzor
Brilliant Diamond: Implements shaped like Bronzor were discovered in ancient tombs. It is unknown whether they are related.
Shining Pearl: X-ray photos were taken to check its body structure, but nothing was seen.

Bronzong
Brilliant Diamond: One caused a media storm when it was dug up at a construction site after a 2,000-year sleep.
Shining Pearl: It can summon rain clouds. People long ago revered it as the bringer of plentiful harvests.

Bonsly
Brilliant Diamond: It looks as if it is always crying. It is actually adjusting its body’s fluid levels by eliminating excess.
Shining Pearl: It prefers arid environments. It leaks water from its eyes to adjust its body’s fluid levels.

Mime Jr.
Brilliant Diamond: It habitually mimics foes. The mimicked foe is said to be unable to look away from Mime Jr.
Shining Pearl: It likes places where people gather. It mimics foes to confuse them, then makes its getaway.

Happiny
Brilliant Diamond: It loves round, white things. It carries an egg-shaped rock in imitation of Chansey.
Shining Pearl: It carries a round, egg-shaped rock in its belly pouch and gives the rock to its friends.

Chatot
Brilliant Diamond: They can learn and speak human words. If they gather, they all learn the same saying.
Shining Pearl: It keeps rhythm by flicking its tail feathers like a metronome. It also imitates human speech.

Spiritomb
Brilliant Diamond: It is a Pokémon that was formed by 108 spirits. It is bound to a fissure in an odd keystone.
Shining Pearl: It was bound to a fissure in an odd keystone as punishment for misdeeds 500 years ago.

Gible
Brilliant Diamond: It nests in small, horizontal holes in cave walls. It pounces to catch prey that stray too close.
Shining Pearl: It once lived in the tropics. To avoid the cold, it lives in caves warmed by geothermal heat.

Gabite
Brilliant Diamond: There is a long-held belief that medicine made from its scales will heal incurable illnesses.
Shining Pearl: It habitually digs up and hoards gems in its nest. Its loot is constantly targeted by thieves.

Garchomp
Brilliant Diamond: When it folds up its body and extends its wings, it looks like a jet plane. It flies at sonic speed.
Shining Pearl: It flies at speeds equal to a jet fighter plane. It never allows its prey to escape.

Munchlax
Brilliant Diamond: It wolfs down its weight in food once a day, swallowing it whole with almost no chewing.
Shining Pearl: It hides food under its long body hair. However, it forgets it has hidden the food.

Riolu
Brilliant Diamond: The aura that emanates from its body intensifies to alert others if it is afraid or sad.
Shining Pearl: Its body is lithe yet powerful. It can crest three mountains and cross two canyons in one night.

Lucario
Brilliant Diamond: It has the ability to sense the auras of all things. It understands human speech.
Shining Pearl: By sensing the aura emanating from others, it can read their thoughts and movements.

Hippopotas
Brilliant Diamond: It lives in arid places. Instead of perspiration, it expels grainy sand from its body.
Shining Pearl: It enshrouds itself with sand to protect itself from germs. It does not enjoy getting wet.

Hippowdon
Brilliant Diamond: It blasts internally stored sand from ports on its body to create a towering twister for attack.
Shining Pearl: Its huge mouth opens almost seven feet wide. It has enough power to completely crush a car.

Skorupi
Brilliant Diamond: It grips prey with its tail claws and injects poison. It tenaciously hangs on until the poison takes.
Shining Pearl: It lives in arid lands. It buries itself in sand and lies in wait for unsuspecting prey.

Drapion
Brilliant Diamond: It has the power in its clawed arms to make scrap of a car. The tips of its claws release poison.
Shining Pearl: Its body is encased in a sturdy shell. Its head rotates 180 degrees, eliminating blind spots.

Croagunk
Brilliant Diamond: Its cheeks hold poison sacs. It tries to catch foes off guard to jab them with toxic fingers.
Shining Pearl: It inflates its poison sacs and makes a blubbering sound to intimidate foes.

Toxicroak
Brilliant Diamond: Its knuckle claws secrete a toxin so vile that even a scratch could prove fatal.
Shining Pearl: The toxin made in its poison sac is pumped to the knuckle claws through tubes down its arms.

Carnivine
Brilliant Diamond: It attracts prey with its sweet-smelling saliva, then chomps down. It takes a whole day to eat its prey.
Shining Pearl: Using its tentacles to hang from branches, it looks like a plant when it is not moving. It awaits prey with its mouth wide open.

Finneon
Brilliant Diamond: After long exposure to sunlight, the patterns on its tail fins shine vividly when darkness arrives.
Shining Pearl: The way its two tail fins flutter while it swims has earned it the nickname Beautifly of the Sea.

Lumineon
Brilliant Diamond: It lives on the deep-sea floor. It attracts prey by flashing patterns on its four fins.
Shining Pearl: To avoid detection by predators, it crawls along the seafloor using the two fins on its chest.

Mantyke
Brilliant Diamond: A friendly Pokémon that senses the subtle flows of seawater using its two antennae.
Shining Pearl: Scientists discovered that the distinctive patterns on its back differ by region.

Snover
Brilliant Diamond: It lives on snowy mountains. Having had little contact with humans, it is boldly inquisitive.
Shining Pearl: In the spring, it grows berries with the texture of frozen treats around its belly.

Abomasnow
Brilliant Diamond: It whips up blizzards in mountains that are always buried in snow. It is the abominable snowman.
Shining Pearl: It blankets wide areas in snow by whipping up blizzards. It is also known as the Ice Monster.

Weavile
Brilliant Diamond: They live in cold regions, forming groups of four or five that hunt prey with impressive coordination.
Shining Pearl: It sends signals to others of its kind by carving odd patterns on trees and ice.

Magnezone
It evolved from exposure to a special magnetic field. Its three units generate magnetism.

Lickilicky
It wraps things with its extensible tongue. Getting too close to it will leave you soaked with drool.

Rhyperior
It puts rocks in holes in its palms and uses its muscles to shoot them. On rare occasions, the Pokémon even shoots out Geodude.

Tangrowth
It ensnares prey by extending arms made of vines. Losing arms to predators does not trouble it.

Electivire
It pushes the tips of its two tails against the foe, then lets loose with over 20,000 volts of electricity.

Magmortar
It blasts fireballs of over 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit from the ends of its arms. It lives in volcanic craters.

Togekiss
It will never appear where there is strife. Sightings of this Pokémon have recently become rare.

Yanmega
By churning its wings, it creates shock waves that inflict critical internal injuries to foes.

Leafeon
Just like a plant, it uses photosynthesis. As a result, it is always enveloped in clear air.

Glaceon
As a defense mechanism, it can completely freeze its fur to make its hairs stand out like needles.

Gliscor
It observes prey while hanging inverted from branches. When the chance presents itself, Gliscor swoops!

Mamoswine
Its impressive tusks are made of ice. The ice age is over and the climate has warmed, so this Pokémon’s population has thinned.

Porygon-Z
Additional software was installed to make it an even better Pokémon. It began acting oddly, however.

Gallade
A master of courtesy and swordsmanship, it fights using the extending swords on its elbows.

Probopass
Its entire body exudes strong magnetism. Probopass controls three small units called Mini-Noses.

Dusknoir
The antenna on its head captures radio waves from the world of spirits that command it to take people there.

Froslass
It freezes foes with an icy breath that is nearly −60 degrees Fahrenheit. What seems to be its body is actually hollow.

Rotom
Its body is composed of plasma. It is known to infiltrate electronic devices and wreak havoc.

Uxie
Brilliant Diamond: Known as the Being of Knowledge, it is said that it can wipe out the memory of those who see its eyes.
Shining Pearl: It is said that its emergence gave humans the intelligence to improve their quality of life.

Mesprit
Brilliant Diamond: It is known as the Being of Emotion. It taught humans the nobility of sorrow, pain, and joy.
Shining Pearl: It sleeps at the bottom of a lake. Its spirit is said to leave its body to fly on the lake’s surface.

Azelf
Brilliant Diamond: It is known as the Being of Willpower. It sleeps at the bottom of a lake to keep the world in balance.
Shining Pearl: It is thought that Uxie, Mesprit, and Azelf all came from the same egg.

Dialga
Brilliant Diamond: It has the power to control time. It appears in Sinnoh-region myths as an ancient deity.
Shining Pearl: This Pokémon is spoken of in legend. It is said that time began moving when Dialga was born.

Palkia
Brilliant Diamond: It has the ability to distort space. It is described as a deity in Sinnoh-region mythology.
Shining Pearl: It is said to live in a gap in the spatial dimension parallel to ours. Palkia appears in mythology.

Heatran
It dwells in volcanic caves. It digs in with its cross-shaped feet to crawl on ceilings and walls.

Regigigas
There is an enduring legend that states this Pokémon towed continents with ropes.

Giratina
A Pokémon that is said to live in a world on the reverse side of ours. It appears in an ancient cemetery.

Cresselia
When it flies, it releases shiny particles from its veil-like wings. It is said to represent the crescent moon.

Phione
A Pokémon that lives in warm seas. It inflates the flotation sac on its head to drift and search for food.

Manaphy
Brilliant Diamond: Born on a cold seafloor, it will swim great distances to return to its birthplace.
Shining Pearl: Water makes up 80 percent of its body. This Pokémon is easily affected by its environment.

Darkrai
Brilliant Diamond: It can lull people to sleep and make them dream. It is active during nights of a new moon.
Shining Pearl: Folklore has it that on moonless nights, this Pokémon will make people see horrific nightmares.

Shaymin
Brilliant Diamond: It lives in common flower patches but is rarely noticed. It is often mistaken for a flowering plant when curled up.
Shining Pearl: It can dissolve toxins in the air to instantly transform ruined land into a lush field of flowers.

Arceus
Brilliant Diamond: It is described in mythology as the Pokémon that shaped the universe with its 1,000 arms.
Shining Pearl: It is told in mythology that this Pokémon was the first Pokémon born before the universe even existed.
