Bulbasaur
It can go for days without eating a single morsel. In the bulb on its back, it stores energy.

Ivysaur
The bud on its back grows by drawing energy. It gives off an aroma when it is ready to bloom.

Venusaur
The flower on its back catches the sun’s rays. The sunlight is then absorbed and used for energy.

Mega Venusaur
In order to support its flower, which has grown larger due to Mega Evolution, its back and legs have become stronger.

Charmander
The flame at the tip of its tail makes a sound as it burns. You can only hear it in quiet places.

Charmeleon
Tough fights could excite this Pokémon. When excited, it may breathe out bluish-white flames.

Charizard
When this Pokémon expels a blast of superhot fire, the red flame at the tip of its tail burns more intensely.

Mega Charizard X
The overwhelming power that fills its entire body causes it to turn black and creates intense blue flames.

Mega Charizard Y
Its bond with its Trainer is the source of its power. It boasts speed and maneuverability greater than that of a jet fighter.

Squirtle
Shoots water at prey while in the water. Withdraws into its shell when in danger.

Wartortle
When tapped on its head, this Pokémon will pull it in, but its tail will still stick out a little bit.

Blastoise
Once it takes aim at its enemy, it blasts out water with even more force than a fire hose.

Mega Blastoise
The cannon on its back is as powerful as a tank gun. Its tough legs and back enable it to withstand the recoil from firing the cannon.

Caterpie
If you touch the feeler on top of its head, it will release a horrible stink to protect itself.

Metapod
Hardens its shell to protect itself. However, a large impact may cause it to pop out of its shell.

Butterfree
Its wings, covered with poisonous powder, repel water. This allows it to fly in the rain.

Weedle
Beware of the sharp stinger on its head. It hides in grass and bushes where it eats leaves.

Kakuna
Able to move only slightly. When endangered, it may stick out its stinger and poison its enemy.

Beedrill
It has three poisonous stingers on its forelegs and its tail. They are used to jab its enemy repeatedly.

Mega Beedrill
Its legs have become poison stingers. It stabs its prey repeatedly with the stingers on its limbs, dealing the final blow with the stinger on its rear.

Pidgey
Very docile. If attacked, it will often kick up sand to protect itself rather than fight back.

Pidgeotto
This Pokémon is full of vitality. It constantly flies around its large territory in search of prey.

Pidgeot
This Pokémon flies at Mach 2 speed, seeking prey. Its large talons are feared as wicked weapons.

Mega Pidgeot
With its muscular strength now greatly increased, it can fly continuously for two weeks without resting.

Rattata
Will chew on anything with its fangs. If you see one, you can be certain that 40 more live in the area.

Alolan Rattata
Its whiskers provide it with a keen sense of smell, enabling it to pick up the scent of hidden food and locate it instantly.

Raticate
Its hind feet are webbed. They act as flippers, so it can swim in rivers and hunt for prey.

Alolan Raticate
It makes its Rattata underlings gather food for it, dining solely on the most nutritious and delicious fare.

Spearow
Inept at flying high. However, it can fly around very fast to protect its territory.

Fearow
A Pokémon that dates back many years. If it senses danger, it flies high and away, instantly.

Ekans
The older it gets, the longer it grows. At night, it wraps its long body around tree branches to rest.

Arbok
The frightening patterns on its belly have been studied. Six variations have been confirmed.

Pikachu
Yellow: It keeps its tail raised to monitor its surroundings. If you yank its tail, it will try to bite you.
Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee: This forest-dwelling Pokémon stores electricity in its cheeks, so you’ll feel a tingly shock if you touch it.

Raichu
When electricity builds up inside its body, it becomes feisty. It also glows in the dark.

Alolan Raichu
It loves pancakes prepared with a secret Alolan recipe. Some wonder whether that recipe holds the key to this Pokémon’s evolution.

Sandshrew
Its body is dry. When it gets cold at night, its hide is said to become coated with a fine dew.

Alolan Sandshrew
Its ice-covered body lets it slide across the ground with bullet-like speed, sending its enemies flying when it hits them.

Sandslash
It is skilled at slashing enemies with its claws. If broken, they start to grow back in a day.

Alolan Sandslash
This is Sandslash’s form after adaptation to a frigid environment. The cold air emitted by its body sharpens its icy spikes.

Nidoran♀
A mild-mannered Pokémon that does not like to fight. Beware—its small horn secretes venom.

Nidorina
When resting deep in its burrow, its barbs always retract. This is proof that it is relaxed.

Nidoqueen
Tough scales cover the sturdy body of this Pokémon. It appears that the scales grow in cycles.

Nidoran♂
Its large ears are always kept upright. If it senses danger, it will attack with a poisonous sting.

Nidorino
Its horn contains venom. If it stabs an enemy with the horn, the impact makes the poison leak out.

Nidoking
Its steel-like hide adds to its powerful tackle. Its horns are so hard, they can pierce a diamond.

Clefairy
Adored for their cute looks and playfulness. They are thought to be rare, as they do not appear often.

Clefable
They appear to be very protective of their own world. It is a kind of fairy, rarely seen by people.

Vulpix
Both its fur and its tails are beautiful. As it grows, the tails split and form more tails.

Alolan Vulpix
It looks like snow come to life, and the breath it exhales is −58 degrees Fahrenheit. Another name for it is Keokeo.

Ninetales
According to an enduring legend, nine noble saints were united and reincarnated as this Pokémon.

Alolan Ninetales
It lives on mountains perpetually covered in snow and is revered as a deity incarnate. It appears draped in a blizzard.

Jigglypuff
Uses its cute round eyes to enrapture its foe. It then sings a pleasing melody that lulls the foe to sleep.

Wigglytuff
Its body is very elastic. By inhaling deeply, it can continue to inflate itself without limit.

Zubat
Emits ultrasonic cries while it flies. They act as a sonar used to check for objects in its way.

Golbat
It attacks in a stealthy manner, without warning. Its sharp fangs are used to bite and to suck blood.

Oddish
It may be mistaken for a clump of weeds. If you try to yank it out of the ground, it shrieks horribly.

Gloom
Smells incredibly foul! However, around one out of a thousand people enjoy sniffing its nose-bending stink.

Vileplume
Flaps its broad flower petals to scatter its poisonous pollen. The flapping sound is very loud.

Paras
Burrows under the ground to gnaw on tree roots. The mushrooms on its back absorb most of the nutrition.

Parasect
The bug host is drained of energy by the mushroom on its back. The mushroom appears to do all the thinking.

Venonat
Its large eyes act as radar. In a bright place, you can see that they are clusters of many tiny eyes.

Venomoth
The powdery scales on its wings are hard to remove from skin. They also contain poison that leaks out on contact.

Diglett
It prefers dark places. It spends most of its time underground, though it may pop up in caves.

Alolan Diglett
After living in soil with high iron content for some time, three steel whiskers sprouted from the top of its head.

Dugtrio
A team of triplets that can burrow to a depth of 60 miles. It’s reported that this triggers an earthquake.

Alolan Dugtrio
They’re referred to as triplets, but they’re not identical—the metallic elements in their bodies differ slightly. The proof shows in their whiskers!

Meowth
Appears to be more active at night. It loves round and shiny things. It can’t stop itself from picking them up.

Alolan Meowth
Highly intelligent and prideful, it’s famously difficult to handle—but that’s also a reason for its popularity.

Persian
The gem in its forehead glows on its own! It walks with all the grace and elegance of a proud queen.

Alolan Persian
It has the classiest coat. The rippling of its fur in the heat of battle has a beauty all its own.

Psyduck
Always tormented by headaches. It uses psychic powers, but whether it intends to do so is not known.

Golduck
Its long, slim limbs end in broad flippers. They are used for swimming gracefully in lakes.

Mankey
An agile Pokémon that lives in trees. It angers easily and will not hesitate to attack anything.

Primeape
It stops being angry only when nobody else is around. To view this moment is very difficult.

Growlithe
A Pokémon with a friendly nature. However, it will bark fiercely at anything invading its territory.

Arcanine
A legendary Pokémon in the East. Many people are charmed by the grace and beauty of its running.

Poliwag
The direction of the spiral on the belly differs by area. It is more adept at swimming than walking.

Poliwhirl
Under attack, it uses its belly spiral to put the foe to sleep. It then makes its escape.

Poliwrath
Swims powerfully using all the muscles in its body. It can even overtake world-class swimmers.

Abra
Sleeps 18 hours a day. If it senses danger, it will teleport itself to safety even as it sleeps.

Kadabra
Many odd things happen if this Pokémon is close by. For example, it makes clocks run backward.

Alakazam
A Pokémon that can memorize anything. It never forgets what it learns—that’s why this Pokémon is smart.

Mega Alakazam
It’s adept at precognition. When attacks completely miss Alakazam, that’s because it’s seeing the future.

Machop
Very powerful in spite of its small size. Its mastery of many types of martial arts makes it very tough.

Machoke
The belt around its waist holds back its energy. Without it, this Pokémon would be unstoppable.

Machamp
One arm alone can move mountains. Using all four arms, this Pokémon fires off awesome punches.

Bellsprout
Prefers hot and humid places. It ensnares tiny bugs with its vines and devours them.

Weepinbell
When hungry, it swallows anything that moves. Its hapless prey is dissolved by strong acids.

Victreebel
Lures prey with the sweet aroma of honey. Swallowed whole, the prey is dissolved in a day, bones and all.

Tentacool
It can sometimes be found all dry and shriveled up on a beach. Toss it back into the sea to revive it.

Tentacruel
Its 80 tentacles can stretch and contract freely. They wrap around prey and weaken it with poison.

Geodude
Commonly found near mountain trails and the like. If you step on one by accident, it gets angry.

Alolan Geodude
Its stone head is imbued with electricity and magnetism. If you carelessly step on one, you’ll be in for a painful shock.

Graveler
Often seen rolling down mountain trails. Obstacles are just things to roll straight over, not avoid.

Alolan Graveler
When it comes rolling down a mountain path, anything in its way gets zapped by electricity and sent flying.

Golem
Once it sheds its skin, its body turns tender and whitish. Its hide hardens when it’s exposed to air.

Alolan Golem
It uses magnetism to accelerate and fire off rocks tinged with electricity. Even if it doesn’t score a direct hit, the jolt of electricity will do the job.

Ponyta
Capable of jumping incredibly high. Its hooves and sturdy legs absorb the impact of a hard landing.

Rapidash
Just loves to run. If it sees something faster than itself, it will give chase at top speed.

Slowpoke
Incredibly slow and sluggish. It is quite content to loll about without worrying about the time.

Slowbro
Lives lazily by the sea. If the Shellder on its tail comes off, it becomes a Slowpoke again.

Mega Slowbro
Under the influence of Shellder’s digestive fluids, Slowpoke has awakened, gaining a great deal of power—and a little motivation to boot.

Magnemite
It is hatched with the ability to defy gravity. It floats while emitting powerful electromagnetic waves.

Magneton
Generates strange radio signals. It raises the temperature by 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit within 3,300 feet.

Farfetch'd
They live where reedy plants grow. Farfetch'd are rarely seen, so it’s thought their numbers are decreasing.

Doduo
Its short wings make flying difficult. Instead, this Pokémon runs at high speed on developed legs.

Dodrio
One of Doduo’s two heads splits to form a unique species. It runs close to 40 mph in prairies.

Seel
Loves freezing-cold conditions. Relishes swimming in a frigid climate of around 14 degrees Fahrenheit.

Dewgong
Its entire body is a snowy white. Unharmed by even intense cold, it swims powerfully in icy waters.

Grimer
Made of congealed sludge. It smells too putrid to touch. Even weeds won’t grow in its path.

Alolan Grimer
It has a passion for trash above all else, speedily digesting it and creating brilliant crystals of sparkling poison.

Muk
Smells so awful, it can cause fainting. Through degeneration of its nose, it lost its sense of smell.

Alolan Muk
Muk’s coloration becomes increasingly vivid the more it feasts on its favorite dish—trash.

Shellder
The shell can withstand any attack. However, when it is open, the tender body is exposed.

Cloyster
For protection, it uses its harder-than-diamond shell. It also shoots spikes from the shell.

Gastly
Said to appear in decrepit, deserted buildings. It has no real shape, as it appears to be made of a gas.

Haunter
By licking, it saps the victim’s life. It causes shaking that won’t stop until the victim’s demise.

Gengar
A Gengar is close by if you feel a sudden chill. It may be trying to lay a curse on you.

Mega Gengar
It can pass through other dimensions and appear anywhere. It caused a stir one time when it stuck just one leg out of a wall.

Onix
Burrows at high speed in search of food. The tunnels it leaves are used as homes by Diglett.

Drowzee
If you sleep by it all the time, it will sometimes show you dreams it had eaten in the past.

Hypno
Avoid eye contact if you come across one. It will try to put you to sleep by using its pendulum.

Krabby
Its pincers are superb weapons. They sometimes break off during battle, but they grow back fast.

Kingler
One claw grew massively and is as hard as steel. It has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, it is too heavy.

Voltorb
It is said to camouflage itself as a Poké Ball. It will self-destruct with very little stimulus.

Electrode
Stores electrical energy inside its body. Even the slightest shock could trigger a huge explosion.

Exeggcute
The heads attract each other and spin around. There must be six heads for it to maintain balance.

Exeggutor
Its cries are very noisy. This is because each of the three heads thinks about whatever it likes.

Alolan Exeggutor
The strong sunlight of the Alola region has awakened the power hidden within Exeggcute. This is the result.

Cubone
Wears the skull of its deceased mother. Its cries echo inside the skull and come out as a sad melody.

Marowak
Small and weak, this Pokémon is adept with its bone club. It has grown more vicious over the ages.

Alolan Marowak
It has transformed the spirit of its dear departed mother into flames, and tonight it will once again dance in mourning of others of its kind.

Hitmonlee
When kicking, the sole of its foot turns as hard as a diamond on impact and destroys its enemy.

Hitmonchan
Punches in corkscrew fashion. It can punch its way through a concrete wall like a drill.

Lickitung
Its tongue spans almost seven feet and moves more freely than its forelegs. Its licks can cause paralysis.

Koffing
In hot places, its internal gases could expand and explode without any warning. Be very careful!

Weezing
This Pokémon lives and grows by absorbing poison gas, dust, and germs that exist inside garbage.

Rhyhorn
A Pokémon with a one-track mind. Once it charges, it won’t stop running until it falls asleep.

Rhydon
Its brain developed when it began walking on its hind legs. Its armor-like hide even repels molten lava.

Chansey
A gentle and kindhearted Pokémon that shares its nutritious eggs if it sees an injured Pokémon.

Tangela
Its identity is obscured by masses of thick blue vines. The vines are said to never stop growing.

Kangaskhan
Raises its young in its belly pouch. Won’t run from any fight to keep its young protected.

Mega Kangaskhan
Its child has grown rapidly, thanks to the energy of Mega Evolution. Mother and child show off their harmonious teamwork in battle.

Horsea
If it senses any danger, it will vigorously spray water or a special type of ink from its mouth.

Seadra
Touching the back fin causes numbness. It hooks its tail to coral to stay in place while sleeping.

Goldeen
When it is time for them to lay eggs, they can be seen swimming up rivers and falls in large groups.

Seaking
It is the male’s job to make a nest by carving out boulders in a stream using the horn on its head.

Staryu
As long as the center section is unharmed, this Pokémon can grow back fully even if it is chopped to bits.

Starmie
The center section is named the core. People think it is communicating when it glows in seven colors.

Mr. Mime
Always practicing its pantomime act. It makes enemies believe something exists that really doesn’t.

Scyther
Leaps out of tall grass and slices prey with its scythes. The movement looks like that of a ninja.

Jynx
Appears to move to a rhythm of its own, as if it were dancing. It wiggles its hips as it walks.

Electabuzz
If a major power outage occurs, it is certain that this Pokémon has eaten electricity at a power plant.

Magmar
Born in an active volcano. Its body is always cloaked in flames, so it looks like a big ball of fire.

Pinsir
Grips its prey in its pincers and squeezes hard! It can’t move if it’s cold out, so it lives in warm places.

Mega Pinsir
With its vaunted horns, it can lift an opponent 10 times heavier than itself and fly about with ease.

Tauros
A rowdy Pokémon with a lot of stamina. Once running, it won’t stop until it hits something.

Magikarp
Famous for being very unreliable. It can be found swimming in seas, lakes, rivers, and shallow puddles.

Gyarados
Brutally vicious and enormously destructive. Known for totally destroying cities in ancient times.

Mega Gyarados
Although it obeys its instinctive drive to destroy everything within its reach, it will respond to orders from a Trainer it truly trusts.

Lapras
A gentle soul that can understand human speech. It can ferry people across the sea on its back.

Ditto
When it spots an enemy, its body transfigures into an almost-perfect copy of its opponent.

Eevee
Yellow: Its genetic code is unstable, so it could evolve in a variety of ways. There are only a few alive.
Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee: It can evolve into a variety of forms. Eevee’s genes are the key to solving the mysteries of Pokémon evolution.

Vaporeon
Its cell structure is similar to water molecules. It melts into the water and becomes invisible.

Jolteon
A sensitive Pokémon that easily becomes sad or angry. Every time its mood changes, it charges power.

Flareon
It has a flame chamber inside its body. It inhales, then breathes out fire that is over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.

Porygon
The only Pokémon that people anticipate can fly into space. None has managed the feat yet, however.

Omanyte
An ancient Pokémon that was recovered from a fossil. It swam by cleverly twisting its 10 tentacles about.

Omastar
Its sharp beak rings its mouth. Its shell was too big for it to move freely, so it became extinct.

Kabuto
A Pokémon that was recovered from a fossil. It used the eyes on its back while hiding on the seafloor.

Kabutops
A slim and fast swimmer. It sliced its prey with its sharp sickles and drank the body fluids.

Aerodactyl
A savage Pokémon that died out in ancient times. It was resurrected using DNA taken from amber.

Mega Aerodactyl
The power of Mega Evolution has completely restored its genes. The rocks on its body are harder than diamond.

Snorlax
Will eat anything, even if the food happens to be a little moldy. It never gets an upset stomach.

Articuno
A legendary bird Pokémon. It freezes water that is contained in winter air and makes it snow.

Zapdos
This legendary bird Pokémon is said to appear when the sky turns dark and lightning showers down.

Moltres
A legendary bird Pokémon. As it flaps its flaming wings, even the night sky will turn red.

Dratini
Long thought to be a myth, this Pokémon’s existence was only recently confirmed by a fisherman who caught one.

Dragonair
According to a witness, its body was surrounded by a strange aura that gave it a mystical look.

Dragonite
It is said that this Pokémon lives somewhere in the sea and that it flies. However, these are only rumors.

Mewtwo
Its DNA is almost the same as Mew’s. However, its size and disposition are vastly different.

Mega Mewtwo X
Psychic power has augmented its muscles. It has a grip strength of one ton and can sprint a hundred meters in two seconds flat!

Mega Mewtwo Y
Despite its diminished size, its mental power has grown phenomenally. With a mere thought, it can smash a skyscraper to smithereens.

Mew
When viewed through a microscope, this Pokémon’s short, fine, delicate hair can be seen.

Meltan
It melts particles of iron and other metals found in the subsoil, so it can absorb them into its body of molten steel.

Melmetal
Revered long ago for its capacity to create iron from nothing, for some reason it has come back to life after 3,000 years.
