Bulbasaur
Scarlet: For some time after its birth, it uses the nutrients that are packed into the seed on its back in order to grow.
Violet: It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As its body grows larger, the seed does too.

Ivysaur
Scarlet: The more sunlight Ivysaur bathes in, the more strength wells up within it, allowing the bud on its back to grow larger.
Violet: The bulb on its back grows as it absorbs nutrients. The bulb gives off a pleasant aroma when it blooms.

Venusaur
Scarlet: While it basks in the sun, it can convert the light into energy. As a result, it is more powerful in the summertime.
Violet: By spreading the broad petals of its flower and catching the sun’s rays, it fills its body with power.

Charmander
Scarlet: The flame on its tail shows the strength of its life-force. If Charmander is weak, the flame also burns weakly.
Violet: If Charmander is healthy, the flame on the tip of its tail will burn vigorously and won’t go out even if it gets a bit wet.

Charmeleon
Scarlet: When it swings its burning tail, the temperature around it rises higher and higher, tormenting its opponents.
Violet: It is very hotheaded by nature, so it constantly seeks opponents to battle against. Its aggression will not be quelled if it doesn’t win.

Charizard
Scarlet: If Charizard becomes truly angered, the flame at the tip of its tail burns in a light blue shade.
Violet: It uses its wings to fly sky-high. The more experience it gains in battle, the greater the temperature at which its flames burn.

Squirtle
Scarlet: After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. It sprays a potent foam from its mouth.
Violet: Its shell is soft immediately after it is born. In no time at all, the shell becomes so resilient that a prodding finger will bounce right off it.

Wartortle
Scarlet: Wartortle’s long, furry tail is a symbol of longevity, so this Pokémon is quite popular among older people.
Violet: It often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. While swimming quickly, it moves its ears to maintain balance.

Blastoise
Scarlet: It deliberately increases its body weight so it can withstand the recoil of the water jets it fires.
Violet: It has jet nozzles on its shell. This impressive Pokémon uses these jets to charge toward foes with all the force of a rocket.

Ekans
Scarlet: It can freely detach its jaw to swallow large prey whole. It can become too heavy to move, however.
Violet: A very common sight in grasslands and such. It flicks its tongue in and out to sense danger in its surroundings.

Arbok
Scarlet: The pattern on its belly appears to be a frightening face. Weak foes will flee just at the sight of the pattern.
Violet: This Pokémon is very tenacious. Once it targets its prey, it won’t give up the chase, no matter how far the prey goes.

Pikachu
Scarlet: When it is angered, it immediately discharges the energy stored in the pouches in its cheeks.
Violet: When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity can build and cause lightning storms.

Original Cap Pikachu
Scarlet: The cap this Pikachu wears is filled with memories of this Pokémon and its partner traveling across lots of different regions together.
Violet: This Pikachu wears its partner’s cap—proof of the strong bond Pikachu and its partner formed during adventures across many different regions.

Hoenn, Sinnoh, Unova, Kalos, Alola Cap Pikachu
Scarlet: The cap this Pikachu wears is filled with memories of this Pokémon and its partner traveling across the Hoenn/Sinnoh/Unova/Kalos/Alola region together.
Violet: This Pikachu wears its partner's cap-proof of the strong bond Pikachu and its partner formed during adventures across the Hoenn/Sinnoh/Unova/Kalos/Alola region.

Partner Cap Pikachu
Scarlet: The cap this Pikachu wears is filled with memories of this Pokémon traveling together with its partner, whom it met in a fateful encounter.
Violet: This Pikachu wears its partner’s cap—proof of the strong bond Pikachu and its partner formed as the two overcame many hardships together.

World Cap Pikachu
Scarlet: The cap this Pikachu wears is filled with memories of this Pokémon and its partner traveling across the world together.
Violet: This Pikachu wears its partner’s cap—proof of the strong bond Pikachu and its partner formed during adventures across the world.

Raichu
Scarlet: Its tail discharges electricity into the ground, protecting it from getting shocked.
Violet: If the electric pouches in its cheeks become fully charged, both ears will stand straight up.

Sandshrew
Scarlet: It digs deep burrows to live in. When in danger, it rolls up its body to withstand attacks.
Violet: No matter how high a place it falls from, this Pokémon can save itself by rolling into a ball and bouncing.

Alolan Sandshrew
Scarlet: It lives on snowy mountains. Its steel shell is very hard—so much so, it can’t roll its body up into a ball.
Violet: An ancient tradition of Alolan festivals, still carried on to this day, is a competition to slide Sandshrew across ice as far as one can.

Sandslash
Scarlet: It is adept at attacking with the spines on its back and its sharp claws while quickly scurrying about.
Violet: The spikes on its body are made up of its hardened hide. It rolls up and attacks foes with its spikes.

Alolan Sandslash
Scarlet: This Pokémon’s steel spikes are sheathed in ice. Stabs from these spikes cause deep wounds and severe frostbite as well.
Violet: A long, long time ago, it lived in the desert. With its sharp claws fully extended, it can run right up an iceberg without slipping.

Clefairy
Scarlet: On nights with a full moon, Clefairy gather from all over and dance. Bathing in moonlight makes them float.
Violet: On nights with a full moon, they gather together and dance. The surrounding area is enveloped in an abnormal magnetic field.

Clefable
Scarlet: Said to live in quiet, remote mountains, this type of fairy has a strong aversion to being seen.
Violet: It has an acute sense of hearing. It can easily hear a pin being dropped nearly 1,100 yards away.

Vulpix
Scarlet: If it is attacked by an enemy that is stronger than itself, it feigns injury to fool the enemy and escapes.
Violet: As its body grows larger, its six warm tails become more beautiful, with a more luxurious coat of fur.

Alolan Vulpix
Scarlet: They live together in a skulk, helping one another. Before eating their prey, they freeze it solid with their −58 degree Fahrenheit breath.
Violet: In hot weather, this Pokémon makes ice shards with its six tails and sprays them around to cool itself off.

Ninetales
Scarlet: Some legends claim that each of its nine tails has its own unique type of special mystical power.
Violet: It has nine long tails and fur that gleams gold. It is said to live for 1,000 years.

Alolan Ninetales
Scarlet: Possessing a calm demeanor, this Pokémon was revered as a deity incarnate before it was identified as a regional variant of Ninetales.
Violet: It creates drops of ice in its coat and showers them over its enemies. Anyone who angers it will be frozen stiff in an instant.

Jigglypuff
Scarlet: When its huge eyes waver, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep.
Violet: If it inflates to sing a lullaby, it can perform longer and cause sure drowsiness in its audience.

Wigglytuff
Scarlet: It has a very fine fur. Take care not to make it angry, or it may inflate steadily and hit with a body slam.
Violet: The rich, fluffy fur that covers its body feels so good that anyone who feels it can’t stop touching it.

Oddish
Scarlet: Its scientific name is Oddium wanderus. It is said to cover distances as far as 1,000 feet when night falls, walking on its two roots.
Violet: When it is woken by moonlight, it wanders about. But during the day, it stays still underground.

Gloom
Scarlet: The fluid that oozes from its mouth isn’t drool. It is a nectar that is used to attract prey.
Violet: It secretes a sticky, drool-like nectar. Though sweet, it smells too repulsive to get very close.

Vileplume
Scarlet: The bud bursts into bloom with a bang. It then starts scattering allergenic, poisonous pollen.
Violet: It fiendishly scatters allergenic pollen from its petals, which are the largest in the world.

Venonat
Scarlet: Poison oozes from all over its body. It catches small bug Pokémon at night that are attracted by light.
Violet: Its eyes act as radar, enabling it to be active in darkness. The eyes can also shoot powerful beams.

Venomoth
Scarlet: The wings are covered with dustlike scales. Every time it flaps its wings, it looses highly toxic dust.
Violet: When it attacks, it flaps its large wings violently to scatter its poisonous powder all around.

Diglett
Scarlet: It lives about one yard underground, where it feeds on plant roots. It sometimes appears aboveground.
Violet: Its skin is very thin. If it is exposed to light, its blood heats up, causing it to grow weak.

Alolan Diglett
Scarlet: The things growing from its head are whiskers that have become metallic. Diglett communicates with its comrades by waving them.
Violet: Its golden whiskers function as sensors. It pokes them out of its burrow to monitor its surroundings.

Dugtrio
Scarlet: Its three heads bob separately up and down to loosen the soil nearby, making it easier for it to burrow.
Violet: In battle, it digs through the ground and strikes the unsuspecting foe from an unexpected direction.

Alolan Dugtrio
Scarlet: Its shining gold whiskers are advanced sensors that can detect vibrations from sounds several miles away.
Violet: Its metallic whiskers are heavy, so it’s not very fast, but it has the power to dig through even the hardest bedrock.

Meowth
Scarlet: All it does is sleep during the daytime. At night, it patrols its territory with its eyes aglow.
Violet: It loves things that sparkle. When it sees a shiny object, the gold coin on its head shines, too.

Persian
Scarlet: Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness.
Violet: It has a vicious temperament. Beware if it raises its tail straight up. This is a signal that it is about to pounce and bite.

Psyduck
Scarlet: It is constantly wracked by a headache. When the headache turns intense, it begins using mysterious powers.
Violet: If its chronic headache peaks, it may exhibit odd powers. It seems unable to recall such an episode.

Golduck
Scarlet: When it swims at full speed using its long, webbed limbs, its forehead somehow begins to glow.
Violet: It swims gracefully along on the quiet, slow-moving rivers and lakes of which it is so fond.

Mankey
Scarlet: It lives in groups in the treetops. If it loses sight of its group, it becomes infuriated by its loneliness.
Violet: It is extremely quick to anger. It could be docile one moment, then thrashing away the next instant.

Primeape
Scarlet: It becomes wildly furious if it even senses someone looking at it. It chases anyone that meets its glare.
Violet: Some researchers theorize that Primeape remains angry even when inside a Poké Ball.

Growlithe
Scarlet: It has a brave and trustworthy nature. It fearlessly stands up to bigger and stronger foes.
Violet: It’s very friendly and faithful to people. It will try to repel enemies by barking and biting.

Arcanine
Scarlet: An ancient picture scroll shows that people were captivated by its movement as it ran through prairies.
Violet: Its magnificent bark conveys a sense of majesty. Anyone hearing it can’t help but grovel before it.

Poliwag
Scarlet: The swirl on its belly is its insides showing through the skin. It appears more clearly after Poliwag eats.
Violet: Its legs are newly grown, and it can’t walk very well. It seems to prefer swimming through the water instead.

Poliwhirl
Scarlet: Its two legs are well developed. Even though it can live on the ground, it prefers living in water.
Violet: Its skin is moist all over its body. The skin on its belly spiral also feels smooth.

Poliwrath
Scarlet: Although it’s skilled in a style of dynamic swimming that uses all its muscles, for some reason it lives on dry land.
Violet: It can use its well-developed arms and legs to run on the surface of the water for a split second.

Bellsprout
Scarlet: No matter what Bellsprout is doing, if it detects movement nearby, it will immediately react by reaching out with its thin vines.
Violet: It plants its feet deep underground to rehydrate itself. While doing so, it’s unable to run away if it’s attacked.

Weepinbell
Scarlet: Even though it is filled with acid, it does not melt because it also oozes a protective fluid.
Violet: The leafy parts act as cutters for slashing foes. It spits a fluid that dissolves everything.

Victreebel
Scarlet: It lures prey into its mouth with a nectar-like aroma. The helpless prey is melted with a dissolving fluid.
Violet: After dissolving many prey, this Pokémon’s acid becomes sweeter. This makes it even easier to attract more prey.

Tentacool
Scarlet: When the tide goes out, dehydrated Tentacool can be found left behind on the shore.
Violet: Its eyes are as transparent as crystals. From them, it shoots mysterious beams of light.

Tentacruel
Scarlet: On the rare occasions that large outbreaks of Tentacruel occur, all fish Pokémon disappear from the surrounding sea.
Violet: In battle, it extends all 80 of its tentacles to entrap its opponent inside a poisonous net.

Geodude
Scarlet: At rest, it looks just like a rock. Carelessly stepping on it will make it swing its fists angrily.
Violet: Most people may not notice, but a closer look should reveal that there are many Geodude around.

Alolan Geodude
Scarlet: Its body is a magnetic stone. Iron sand attaches firmly to the portions of its body that are particularly magnetic.
Violet: If you step on a Geodude sleeping on the ground, you’ll hear a zapping sound and feel a tingling shock throughout your entire body.

Graveler
Scarlet: A slow walker, it rolls to move. It pays no attention to any object that happens to be in its path.
Violet: Moss-covered rocks are Graveler’s favorite food. It consumes over a ton of them a day, crunching loudly while it eats.

Alolan Graveler
Scarlet: They eat rocks and often get into a scrap over them. The impact of Graveler smashing together causes a flash of light and a booming noise.
Violet: Graveler’s entire body is electrically charged due to the stones it likes to eat. It is a very quick-tempered Pokémon.

Golem
Scarlet: It is enclosed in a hard shell that is as rugged as slabs of rock. It sheds skin once a year to grow larger.
Violet: It deliberately blows itself up, then uses this explosive force to jump from mountain to mountain.

Alolan Golem
Scarlet: It’s grumpy and stubborn. If you upset it, it discharges electricity from the surface of its body and growls with a voice like thunder.
Violet: It fires rocks charged with electricity. Even if the rock isn’t fired that accurately, just grazing an opponent will cause numbness and fainting.

Slowpoke
Scarlet: It is incredibly slow and dopey. It takes five seconds for it to feel pain when under attack.
Violet: It is always vacantly lost in thought, but no one knows what it is thinking about. It is good at fishing with its tail.

Galarian Slowpoke
Scarlet: It gives off a stimulating scent because of chemicals that have seeped into its body from the spice that it eats as its staple food.
Violet: It uses its tail to fish, but the scent of the spice emanating from its tail ensures its catches are always lacking.

Slowbro
Scarlet: When a Slowpoke went hunting in the sea, its tail was bitten by a Shellder. That made it evolve into Slowbro.
Violet: If the tail-biting Shellder is thrown off in a harsh battle, this Pokémon reverts to being an ordinary Slowpoke.

Galarian Slowbro
Scarlet: Shellder seems blissful over the taste of Slowbro even though the toxins seeping from the bite have caused Shellder to faint.
Violet: Shellder bites down hard on Slowbro’s arm to suck out more poison. This seems to cause itching, so Slowbro occasionally lashes out.

Magnemite
Scarlet: The electromagnetic waves emitted by the units at the sides of its head expel antigravity, which allows it to float.
Violet: It moves while constantly hovering. It discharges electromagnetic waves and so on from the units at its sides.

Magneton
Scarlet: Three Magnemite are linked by a strong magnetic force. Earaches will occur if you get too close.
Violet: They’re formed by several Magnemite linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up.

Doduo
Scarlet: Its twin heads have exactly the same genes and battle in perfect sync with each other.
Violet: Its heads never sleep at the same time—each one takes a turn keeping watch while the other sleeps, switching every hour or so.

Dodrio
Scarlet: It now has three hearts and three sets of lungs. Though it can’t run as fast as Doduo, Dodrio can keep running for longer stretches of time.
Violet: The strongest head with the thickest neck becomes the leader and gains primary control of the body.

Seel
Scarlet: The protrusion on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick ice.
Violet: The colder it gets, the better it feels. It joyfully swims around oceans so cold that they are filled with floating ice.

Dewgong
Scarlet: It sleeps under shallow ocean waters during the day, then looks for food at night when it’s colder.
Violet: It stores thermal energy in its body to fend off the cold. It swims at eight knots even in frigid waters.

Grimer
Scarlet: Born from sludge, these Pokémon now gather in polluted places and increase the bacteria in their bodies.
Violet: When two of these Pokémon’s bodies are combined together, new poisons are created.

Alolan Grimer
Scarlet: They store their toxins inside their bodies, so unlike Grimer from other regions, they don’t smell bad even up close.
Violet: Alolan Grimer will gladly gobble up any kind of trash, making it a widely used and popular Pokémon at garbage disposal facilities.

Muk
Scarlet: It’s thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison.
Violet: It’s so stinky! Muk’s body contains toxic elements, and any plant will wilt when it passes by.

Alolan Muk
Scarlet: There are over a hundred kinds of poison inside its body. Chemical reactions between different poisons are the source of its vitality.
Violet: What look like fangs and claws are actually crystallized poison that will afflict you at a mere touch, so don’t get too close.

Shellder
Scarlet: It is encased in a shell that is harder than diamond. Inside, however, it is surprisingly tender.
Violet: Clamping on to an opponent reveals its vulnerable parts, so it uses this move only as a last resort.

Cloyster
Scarlet: Cloyster that live in seas with harsh tidal currents grow large, sharp spikes on their shells.
Violet: When attacked, it launches its spikes in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen.

Gastly
Scarlet: It wraps its opponent in its gas-like body, slowly weakening its prey by poisoning it through the skin.
Violet: Its body is made of gas. Despite lacking substance, it can envelop an opponent of any size and cause suffocation.

Haunter
Scarlet: It likes to lurk in the dark and tap shoulders with a gaseous hand. Its touch causes endless shuddering.
Violet: In total darkness, where nothing is visible, Haunter lurks, silently stalking its next victim.

Gengar
Scarlet: To steal the life of its target, it slips into the prey’s shadow and silently waits for an opportunity.
Violet: Hiding in people’s shadows at night, it absorbs their heat. The chill it causes makes the victims shake.

Drowzee
Scarlet: It remembers every dream it eats. It rarely eats the dreams of adults because children’s are much tastier.
Violet: When it twitches its nose, it can tell where someone is sleeping and what that person is dreaming about.

Hypno
Scarlet: When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of psi moves, such as Hypnosis and Confusion.
Violet: Always holding a pendulum that it swings at a steady rhythm, it causes drowsiness in anyone nearby.

Voltorb
Scarlet: It rolls to move. If the ground is uneven, a sudden jolt from hitting a bump can cause it to explode.
Violet: It’s usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a Poké Ball, it has zapped many people.

Electrode
Scarlet: The more energy it charges up, the faster it gets. But this also makes it more likely to explode.
Violet: It explodes in response to even minor stimuli. It is feared, with the nickname of the Bomb Ball.

Exeggcute
Scarlet: If you touch one of Exeggcute’s heads, mistaking it for an egg, the other heads will quickly gather and attack you in a swarm.
Violet: Using telepathy only fellow Exeggcute can pick up on, they always form a cluster of six.

Exeggutor
Scarlet: It is called the Walking Jungle. Each of the nuts has a face and a will of its own.
Violet: It is said that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an Exeggcute.

Alolan Exeggutor
Scarlet: It swings its long neck like a whip and smacks its head into opponents. This makes Exeggutor itself a little dizzy too.
Violet: As it grew taller and taller, it outgrew its reliance on psychic powers, while within it awakened the power of the sleeping dragon.

Hitmonlee
Scarlet: At the exact moment it lands a kick on its target, Hitmonlee hardens the muscles on the sole of its foot, maximizing the power of the kick.
Violet: It has complete control over the ligaments in its legs, expanding and contracting them to double the reach of its kicks.

Hitmonchan
Scarlet: It corners its foes with combo punches from both sides, then finishes them off with a single straight punch launched at over 300 mph.
Violet: Its fists are masses of muscle. It takes a break every three minutes to steady its breath and mood.

Koffing
Scarlet: Toxic gas is held within its thin, balloon-shaped body, so it can cause massive explosions.
Violet: The poisonous gases it contains are a little bit lighter than air. That’s why it’s always slightly airborne.

Weezing
Scarlet: Top-grade perfume is made using its internal poison gases by diluting them to the highest level.
Violet: When it inhales poisonous gases from garbage, its body expands, and its insides smell much worse.

Rhyhorn
Scarlet: Rhyhorn claims an area with over a six mile radius as its territory. It apparently forgets where this territory is when running, however.
Violet: Once it starts running, it won’t stop—even if it crashes through boulders. This disposition is what’s caused its habitat to expand.

Rhydon
Scarlet: The horn of a Rhydon is powerful enough to crush raw diamonds. These Pokémon polish their horns by bashing them together.
Violet: It evolved to walk using only its hind legs, which has allowed it to expand its habitat even onto steep mountains.

Chansey
Scarlet: This kindly Pokémon lays highly nutritious eggs and shares them with injured Pokémon or people.
Violet: It walks carefully to prevent its egg from breaking. However, it is extremely fast at running away.

Horsea
Scarlet: If attacked—even by a large enemy—Horsea effortlessly swims to safety by utilizing its well-developed dorsal fin.
Violet: It maintains balance using its tail, which is wound up like a coil. It may spray ink from its mouth.

Seadra
Scarlet: The male raises the young. If it is approached while caring for young, it will use its toxic spines to fend off the intruder.
Violet: Its fin tips leak poison. Its fins and bones are highly valued as ingredients in herbal medicine.

Scyther
Scarlet: It slashes through grass with its sharp scythes, moving too fast for the human eye to track.
Violet: The sharp scythes on its forearms become increasingly sharp by cutting through hard objects.

Electabuzz
Scarlet: Its body constantly discharges electricity. Getting close to it will make your hair stand on end.
Violet: Research is progressing on storing lightning in Electabuzz so this energy can be used at any time.

Magmar
Scarlet: Found near the mouth of a volcano. This fire-breather’s body temperature is nearly 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit.
Violet: Wavering flames similar to those of the sun appear on the surface of this Pokémon’s body.

Tauros
Scarlet: When it targets an enemy, it charges furiously while whipping its body with its long tails.
Violet: They fight each other by locking horns. The herd’s protectors take pride in their battle-scarred horns.

Paldean Tauros (Combat Breed)
Scarlet: This Pokémon has a muscular body and excels at close-quarters combat. It uses its short horns to strike the opponent’s weak spots.
Violet: This kind of Tauros, known as the Combat Breed, is distinguished by its thick, powerful muscles and its fierce disposition.

Paldean Tauros (Blaze Breed)
Scarlet: When heated by fire energy, its horns can get hotter than 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit. Those gored by them will suffer both wounds and burns.
Violet: People call this kind of Tauros the Blaze Breed due to the hot air it snorts from its nostrils. Its three tails are intertwined.

Paldean Tauros (Aqua Breed)
Scarlet: This Pokémon blasts water from holes on the tips of its horns—the high-pressure jets pierce right through Tauros’s enemies.
Violet: It swims by jetting water from its horns. The most notable characteristic of the Aqua Breed is its high body fat, which allows it to float easily.

Magikarp
Scarlet: An underpowered, pathetic Pokémon. It may jump high on rare occasions but never more than seven feet.
Violet: In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today.

Gyarados
Scarlet: Once it appears, it goes on a rampage. It remains enraged until it demolishes everything around it.
Violet: It appears whenever there is world conflict, burning down any place it travels through.

Lapras
Scarlet: It ferries people across the sea on its back. It may sing an enchanting cry if it is in a good mood.
Violet: Able to understand human speech and very intelligent, it loves to swim in the sea with people on its back.

Ditto
Scarlet: Its transformation ability is perfect. However, if made to laugh, it can’t maintain its disguise.
Violet: It can freely recombine its own cellular structure to transform into other life-forms.

Eevee
Scarlet: Its ability to evolve into many forms allows it to adapt smoothly and perfectly to any environment.
Violet: Its genetic code is irregular. It may mutate if it is exposed to radiation from element stones.

Vaporeon
Scarlet: It lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin, which is often mistaken for a mermaid’s.
Violet: Its cell composition is similar to water molecules. As a result, it can’t be seen when it melts away into water.

Jolteon
Scarlet: It concentrates the weak electric charges emitted by its cells and launches wicked lightning bolts.
Violet: If agitated, it uses electricity to straighten out its fur and launch it in small bunches.

Flareon
Scarlet: Inhaled air is carried to its flame sac, heated, and exhaled as fire that reaches over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Violet: It fluffs out its fur collar to cool down its body temperature, which can reach 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit.

Porygon
Scarlet: It is an artificial Pokémon. Since it doesn’t breathe, people are excited by its potential to be useful in any environment.
Violet: Porygon is an artificial Pokémon created using advanced scientific means. It can move freely through cyberspace.

Snorlax
Scarlet: This gluttonous Pokémon eats constantly, apart from when it’s asleep. It devours nearly 900 pounds of food per day.
Violet: Its stomach’s digestive juices can dissolve any kind of poison. Eating things off the ground doesn’t bother it at all.

Dratini
Scarlet: It sheds many layers of skin as it grows larger. During this process, it is protected by a rapid waterfall.
Violet: It is born large to start with. It repeatedly sheds its skin as it steadily grows longer.

Dragonair
Scarlet: They say that if it emits an aura from its whole body, the weather will begin to change instantly.
Violet: It is called the divine Pokémon. When its entire body brightens slightly, the weather changes.

Dragonite
Scarlet: It is said that somewhere in the ocean lies an island where these gather. Only they live there.
Violet: It can fly in spite of its big and bulky physique. It circles the globe in just 16 hours.

Chikorita
Scarlet: It loves to bask in the sunlight. It uses the leaf on its head to seek out warm places.
Violet: Its pleasantly aromatic leaf has the ability to check the humidity and temperature of the area around it.

Bayleef
Scarlet: The spicy scent that wafts from around Bayleef’s neck somehow makes those who smell it want to fight.
Violet: The scent that wafts from the leaves on its neck causes anyone who smells it to become energetic.

Meganium
Scarlet: Anyone who stands beside it becomes refreshed, just as if they were soaking in the soothing atmosphere of a forest.
Violet: Meganium’s breath holds within it the power to revive grasses and plants that have withered.

Cyndaquil
Scarlet: It usually stays hunched over. If it is angry or surprised, it shoots flames out of its back.
Violet: The fire that spouts from its back burns hottest when it is angry. The flaring flames intimidate foes.

Quilava
Scarlet: Before battle, it turns its back on its opponent to demonstrate how ferociously its fire blazes.
Violet: The fur covering this Pokémon’s body never burns, no matter what. It can shrug off any kind of fire attack.

Typhlosion
Scarlet: It has a secret, devastating move. It rubs its blazing fur to cause huge explosions.
Violet: If its rage peaks, it becomes so hot that anything that touches it will instantly go up in flames.

Totodile
Scarlet: Its powerful, well-developed jaws are capable of crushing anything. Even its Trainer must be careful.
Violet: This rough critter chomps at any moving object it sees. Turning your back on it is not recommended.

Croconaw
Scarlet: The tips of its fangs are slanted backward. Once those fangs clamp down, the prey has no hope of escape.
Violet: It opens its huge jaws wide to attack. If it loses fangs while biting, they’ll just keep on growing back, one after another.

Feraligatr
Scarlet: When it bites with its massive and powerful jaws, it shakes its head and savagely tears its victim up.
Violet: Although it has a massive body, its powerful hind legs enable it to move quickly, even on land.

Sentret
Scarlet: This Pokémon is extremely cautious. Its supple tail is well muscled and firm to the touch.
Violet: If it encounters a foe, it will stand up on its tail, making itself look bigger than usual to intimidate them.

Furret
Scarlet: It raises its offspring inside a long, narrow nest. Once they’re old enough, it takes them outside the nest to prepare them for independence.
Violet: It is nimble and has a very flexible body. Even if you get ahold of it, it’ll slip right out of your arms.

Hoothoot
Scarlet: Hoothoot’s internal clock is precise at all times. It tilts its head in a fixed rhythm.
Violet: Since it tells time precisely, some countries consider it to be a deity of wisdom, versed in the ways of the world.

Noctowl
Scarlet: Its eyes are specially adapted. They concentrate even faint light and enable it to see in the dark.
Violet: Its extremely soft wings make no sound in flight. It silently sneaks up on prey without being detected.

Spinarak
Scarlet: Even while there are prey ensnared in its nest of spun thread, Spinarak will wait motionlessly until darkness falls.
Violet: Some fishers weave its sturdy thread into nets to catch fish Pokémon.

Ariados
Scarlet: A single strand of a special thread is endlessly spun out of its rear. The thread leads back to its nest.
Violet: It wanders in search of food after darkness falls, never nesting in a specific place.

Chinchou
Scarlet: It lives in ocean depths beyond the reach of sunlight. It flashes lights on its antennae to communicate with others of its kind.
Violet: It shoots positively and negatively charged electricity from the tips of its two antennae and stuns its opponents.

Lanturn
Scarlet: Portions of its dorsal fin mutated, becoming the parts that glow brightly to lure prey.
Violet: It blinds prey with an intense burst of light. With the prey incapacitated, the Pokémon swallows it in a single gulp.

Pichu
Scarlet: It is unskilled at storing electric power. Any kind of shock causes it to discharge energy spontaneously.
Violet: Despite this Pokémon’s cute appearance, those who want to live with one should prepare to be on the receiving end of its electric jolts.

Cleffa
Scarlet: On late nights illuminated by shooting stars, it gazes intently skyward, as if thinking of its home.
Violet: Since it is often seen when shooting stars fill the night skies, it’s said to come here by riding on a star.

Igglybuff
Scarlet: Its body has a faintly sweet scent and is bouncy and soft. If it bounces even once, it cannot stop.
Violet: It likes to sing but is not yet good at it. With praise and encouragement, it will get better little by little.

Mareep
Scarlet: If static electricity builds in its body, its fleece doubles in volume. Touching it will shock you.
Violet: Its fleece grows continually. In the summer, the fleece is fully shed, but it grows back in a week.

Flaaffy
Scarlet: As a result of storing too much electricity, it developed patches where even downy wool won’t grow.
Violet: Because of its rubbery, electricity-resistant skin, it can store lots of electricity in its fur.

Ampharos
Scarlet: The bright light on its tail can be seen far away. It has been treasured since ancient times as a beacon.
Violet: When it gets dark, the light from its bright, shiny tail can be seen from far away on the ocean’s surface.

Bellossom
Scarlet: Due to the effects of the Sun Stone, it is now active during the daytime. It likes to dance in pools of sunlight.
Violet: After it grows up, it leaves the forest it was born in to form groups with other Bellossom. It breaks into dance when it gets excited.

Marill
Scarlet: The fur on its body naturally repels water. It can stay dry even when it plays in the water.
Violet: The oil-filled tail functions as a buoy, so it’s fine even in rivers with strong currents.

Azumarill
Scarlet: Its long ears are superb sensors. It can distinguish the movements of things in water and tell what they are.
Violet: By keeping still and listening intently, it can tell what is in even wild, fast-moving rivers.

Sudowoodo
Scarlet: Although it always pretends to be a tree, its composition appears more similar to rock than to vegetation.
Violet: To avoid being attacked, it does nothing but mimic a tree. It hates water and flees from rain.

Politoed
Scarlet: If Poliwag and Poliwhirl hear its echoing cry, they respond by gathering from far and wide.
Violet: It’s the leader of Poliwag and Poliwhirl. When Politoed roars, they all cower in fear.

Hoppip
Scarlet: This Pokémon is blown across vast distances by the wind. It is unclear where the Hoppip of Paldea originally came from.
Violet: Outside of cold regions, Hoppip can be found practically everywhere. This is because the wind carries this species all over the world.

Skiploom
Scarlet: Skiploom enthusiasts can apparently tell where a Skiploom was born by the scent drifting from the flower on the Pokémon’s head.
Violet: When the weather grows cold, Skiploom’s flower closes and the Pokémon cannot photosynthesize, so it flies away to warmer regions.

Jumpluff
Scarlet: Jumpluff travels on seasonal winds. Once its cotton spores run out, its journey ends, as does its life.
Violet: Beware its cotton spores. If you accidentally breathe them in, you’ll be racked with coughs and itchiness.

Aipom
Scarlet: It lives atop tall trees. When leaping from branch to branch, it deftly uses its tail for balance.
Violet: Its tail moves with greater dexterity than its hands. Making deft use of this tail, Aipom lives high among the treetops.

Sunkern
Scarlet: It suddenly falls out of the sky in the morning. Knowing it’s weak, it simply feeds until it evolves.
Violet: It is very weak. Its only means of defense is to shake its leaves desperately at its attacker.

Sunflora
Scarlet: In the daytime, it rushes about in a hectic manner, but it comes to a complete stop when the sun sets.
Violet: Since it converts sunlight into energy, it is always looking in the direction of the sun.

Yanma
Scarlet: As Yanma surveys its territory, it periodically stops to hover in place by flapping its wings at high speeds.
Violet: It can see in all directions without moving its big eyes, helping it spot both attackers and prey right away.

Wooper
Scarlet: A transparent mucous membrane covers its body. Touching it bare-handed will cause a tingling numbness.
Violet: When it walks around on land, it coats its body with a slimy, poisonous film.

Paldean Wooper
Scarlet: After losing a territorial struggle, Wooper began living on land. The Pokémon changed over time, developing a poisonous film to protect its body.
Violet: It’s dangerous for Wooper to travel alone. They line up in groups of three or four and help each other as they walk around the wetlands.

Quagsire
Scarlet: This carefree Pokémon has an easygoing nature. While swimming, it always bumps into boat hulls.
Violet: Due to its relaxed and carefree attitude, it often bumps its head on riverbed boulders and boat hulls as it swims.

Espeon
Scarlet: The tip of its forked tail quivers when it is predicting its opponent’s next move.
Violet: It uses the fine hair that covers its body to sense air currents and predict its enemy’s actions.

Umbreon
Scarlet: When exposed to the moon’s aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it gains a mysterious power.
Violet: When darkness falls, the rings on the body begin to glow, striking fear in the hearts of anyone nearby.

Murkrow
Scarlet: Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night.
Violet: If spotted, it will lure an unwary person into chasing it, then lose the pursuer on mountain trails.

Slowking
Scarlet: When its head was bitten, toxins entered Slowpoke’s head and unlocked an extraordinary power.
Violet: It has incredible intellect and intuition. Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected.

Galarian Slowking
Scarlet: It administers its potions to weakened Pokémon it sees. These potions are derived from poison and secreted from holes in Slowking’s horns.
Violet: It creates potions by mixing toxins with the food it’s eaten. Not even Slowking itself knows what effects the potions will have.

Misdreavus
Scarlet: This Pokémon startles people in the middle of the night. It gathers fear as its energy.
Violet: It loves to bite and yank people’s hair from behind without warning, just to see their shocked reactions.

Girafarig
Scarlet: Though very small, the brain in its tail is still considered an important organ because it emits powerful psychic energy.
Violet: Girafarig’s tail has a small head. It instinctively bites at any foe that approaches the Pokémon from behind.

Pineco
Scarlet: It likes to make its shell thicker by adding layers of tree bark. The additional weight doesn’t bother it.
Violet: It spits out a fluid that it uses to glue tree bark to its body. The fluid hardens when it touches air.

Forretress
Scarlet: It’s usually found hanging on to a fat tree trunk. It shoots out bits of its shell when it sees action.
Violet: Its entire body is shielded by a steel-hard shell. What lurks inside this shell is a total mystery.

Dunsparce
Scarlet: It creates mazes in dark locations. When spotted, it flees into the ground by digging with its tail.
Violet: If spotted, it escapes by burrowing with its tail. It can float just slightly using its wings.

Gligar
Scarlet: It builds its nest on a steep cliff. When it is done gliding, it hops along the ground back to its nest.
Violet: It glides as if sliding. It startles foes by clamping on to their faces, then jabs with its poison stinger.

Snubbull
Scarlet: In truth, it is a cowardly Pokémon. It growls eagerly in order to hide its fear from its opponent.
Violet: Its growls make its opponents uneasy. This laid-back Pokémon tends to sleep half the day.

Granbull
Scarlet: It is actually timid and easily spooked. If attacked, it desperately flails its limbs about in an attempt to repel its opponent.
Violet: It can make most any Pokémon run away by opening its big mouth to reveal its thick fangs.

Qwilfish
Scarlet: Be cautious if this Pokémon starts sucking in water—it will soon attack by scattering the toxic spikes that grow all over its body.
Violet: Experienced fishers say they try to catch Qwilfish in the brief moment that these Pokémon become defenseless just after launching poisonous spikes.

Hisuian Qwilfish
Scarlet: It lives just offshore in cold parts of the world. Its poisonous spikes are thicker and shorter than those of other regions’ Qwilfish.
Violet: It absorbs toxins from the food it eats. The distinct purple spikes on its body are evidence of its potent poison.

Scizor
Scarlet: This Pokémon’s pincers, which contain steel, can crush any hard object they get ahold of into bits.
Violet: It swings its eye-patterned pincers up to scare its foes. This makes it look like it has three heads.

Heracross
Scarlet: It loves sweet nectar. To keep all the nectar to itself, it hurls rivals away with its prized horn.
Violet: With its herculean powers, it can easily throw around an object that is 100 times its own weight.

Sneasel
Scarlet: This cunning Pokémon hides under the cover of darkness, waiting to attack its prey.
Violet: This is a smart and sneaky Pokémon. A pair may work together to steal eggs by having one lure the parents away.

Teddiursa
Scarlet: This Pokémon discreetly follows Combee to find their hive. It scoops up big dollops of honey in its palms to eat.
Violet: Its paws are soaked in oodles of honey. When nervous, Teddiursa will lick its paws and soon have a smile back on its face.

Ursaring
Scarlet: It usually wears a hardened expression, but when it’s licking up honey—which it loves—the joy it feels will cause it to break into a wide grin.
Violet: It is quite skilled at climbing trees. If it comes across a Primeape while searching for berries in the treetops, trouble will surely ensue.

Slugma
Scarlet: Its lava body can cool and chip away at times, but a magma bath will heal it right up.
Violet: It’s said that in ancient times, when volcanoes were more active, there were many more Slugma than there are now.

Magcargo
Scarlet: This Pokémon lives near the craters of volcanoes. It stores fire energy in its shell of cooled and hardened magma.
Violet: According to folklore, a sudden increase in the wild Magcargo population heralds a volcanic eruption.

Swinub
Scarlet: It searches for food by digging into the ground with its snout. Even frozen ground doesn’t give it any trouble.
Violet: It rubs its snout against the ground, digging through the soil as it searches for food. Sometimes it digs up hot springs.

Piloswine
Scarlet: Covered by a shaggy coat, it is resistant to the cold. Its tusks of ice thicken when it snows.
Violet: Because the long hair all over its body obscures its sight, it just keeps charging repeatedly.

Delibird
Scarlet: It carries food all day long. There are tales about lost people who were saved by the food it had.
Violet: It always carries its food with it, wherever it goes. If attacked, it throws its food at the opponent.

Skarmory
Scarlet: Its sturdy, heavy-looking iron body is actually thin and light, so it can fly at speeds over 180 mph.
Violet: Since the feathers that it sheds are thin and sharp, people apparently once used them as swords.

Houndour
Scarlet: It is smart enough to hunt in packs. It uses a variety of cries for communicating with others.
Violet: It uses different kinds of cries for communicating with others of its kind and for pursuing its prey.

Houndoom
Scarlet: If you are burned by the flames it shoots from its mouth, the pain will never go away.
Violet: Upon hearing its eerie howls, other Pokémon get the shivers and head straight back to their nests.

Kingdra
Scarlet: It sleeps deep on the ocean floor to build its energy. It is said to cause tornadoes as it wakes.
Violet: This Pokémon is said to sleep at the bottom of the sea—deeper than any other life-form can descend—building its energy.

Phanpy
Scarlet: This Pokémon lives and nests on a riverbank. After playing in the mud, it won’t be able to settle down unless it washes its body.
Violet: It is far stronger than it appears. If a Phanpy is swinging its trunk around and your arm gets hit by it, your arm bone will shatter.

Donphan
Scarlet: Donphan is covered in tough hide, so even being hit by a car won’t faze this Pokémon. However, it is extremely susceptible to rain.
Violet: Donphan is normally a calm Pokémon, but once it is enraged, it will curl its body into a ball and charge at you while rolling.

Porygon2
Scarlet: This artificial Pokémon evolved thanks to cutting-edge science. It sometimes displays behavior that is not in its programming.
Violet: Porygon was upgraded to become capable of planetary development. However, this upgraded version cannot even fly yet.

Stantler
Scarlet: This Pokémon apparently used to live in much harsher environments, and thus it once had stronger psychic powers than it does now.
Violet: It’s said that this Pokémon used to be stronger long ago when it had many enemies, and that it was even able to evolve under its own power.

Smeargle
Scarlet: Once a Smeargle reaches adulthood, it will have other members of its species leave paw prints on its back.
Violet: The color of the mysterious fluid secreted from the tip of the tail is predetermined for each Smeargle.

Tyrogue
Scarlet: This earnest Pokémon battles all sorts of opponents, searching for the fighting style that suits it best.
Violet: Its intense desire to become stronger and stronger drives it to recklessly train its body and challenge any opponent it can find to battle.

Hitmontop
Scarlet: This Pokémon is adept at dance-like kicks. The horn atop its head is made from the same substance that generally forms fur and claws.
Violet: It spins on its horn while dealing out elegant kicks. Its horn grows continuously through its lifetime.

Elekid
Scarlet: It loves violent thunder. The space between its horns flickers bluish white when it is charging energy.
Violet: It rotates its arms to generate electricity, but it tires easily, so it only charges up a little bit.

Magby
Scarlet: Each and every time it inhales and exhales, sparks leak from its mouth and nostrils.
Violet: Magma-like blood circulates throughout this Pokémon’s body, raising its body temperature as high as 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit.

Blissey
Scarlet: Anyone who takes even one taste of Blissey’s egg becomes unfailingly caring and pleasant to everyone.
Violet: The eggs it lays are filled with happiness. Eating even one bite will bring a smile to anyone.

Larvitar
Scarlet: Born deep underground, this Pokémon becomes a pupa after eating enough dirt to make a mountain.
Violet: It is born deep underground. It can’t emerge until it has entirely consumed the soil around it.

Pupitar
Scarlet: This pupa flies around wildly by venting with great force the gas pressurized inside its body.
Violet: Its shell is as hard as bedrock, and it is also very strong. Its thrashing can topple a mountain.

Tyranitar
Scarlet: Extremely strong, it can change the landscape. It is so insolent that it doesn’t care about others.
Violet: In just one of its mighty hands, it has the power to make the ground shake and mountains crumble.

Treecko
Scarlet: The small hooks on the soles of its feet latch on to walls and ceilings, so it will never fall even while hanging upside down.
Violet: Treecko can quickly scale even vertical surfaces. It senses humidity with its tail to predict the next day’s weather.

Grovyle
Scarlet: Its strongly developed thigh muscles give it astounding agility and jumping performance.
Violet: Grovyle leaps from branch to branch in large trees, moving with ease. It propels itself with astounding speed and force.

Sceptile
Scarlet: It agilely flits through the jungle and uses the sharp-edged leaves on its arms to cut down its prey.
Violet: The leaves on its arms are as sharp as swords. It agilely leaps about the branches of trees to strike its enemies.

Torchic
Scarlet: Torchic feels toasty warm if you hug it. It has a flame sac inside its belly, and the flames burn continuously as long as Torchic has life in it.
Violet: In its belly, it has a sac filled with burning fire, meaning that Torchic feels as warm as a hot-water bottle if you hug it.

Combusken
Scarlet: It boosts its concentration by emitting harsh cries. Its kicks have outstanding destructive power.
Violet: When it enters battle, the flame inside its body burns stronger. Its kicks have outstanding destructive power.

Blaziken
Scarlet: When facing a tough foe, it looses flames from its wrists. Its powerful legs let it jump clear over buildings.
Violet: It can jump powerfully, clearing a 30-story building in a single leap. Its flaming punches scorch its opponents.

Mudkip
Scarlet: It has the power to crush large boulders into pieces. To rest, it buries itself in mud at the bottom of a river.
Violet: When it uses its large tail fin, it picks up speed rapidly in the water. It is strong in spite of its small size.

Marshtomp
Scarlet: Living on muddy ground that provides poor footing has served to train its lower body and caused it to develop sturdy legs.
Violet: It is at its best when on muddy ground that offers poor footing. It quickly overwhelms opponents that are bogged down and unable to move.

Swampert
Scarlet: Its arms are hard as rock. With one swing, it can break an enormous boulder into pieces.
Violet: Swampert’s arms are rock-hard. With one swing, they can batter down Swampert’s foes. This Pokémon makes its nest on beautiful beaches.

Poochyena
Scarlet: It bares its large fangs and barks vigorously to try to intimidate opponents, but this is actually a manifestation of its cowardly nature.
Violet: Poochyena pursue their prey in packs. Once the prey is exhausted, the pack finishes it off. But sometimes the prey retaliates, and the pack flees.

Mightyena
Scarlet: They faithfully follow the orders of their leader. Prey targeted by Mightyena is never allowed to escape the outstanding teamwork of its pursuers.
Violet: Once it’s caught the scent of faraway prey, the leader gives a signal, and the whole pack moves out.

Lotad
Scarlet: The leaf on its head is naturally dirt repellent and will stay clean even after transporting Pokémon that are covered in mud.
Violet: Lotad will gather in lakes that have good water quality. The surfaces of these lakes sometimes become covered in Lotad leaves.

Lombre
Scarlet: Old folklore in Kitakami tells of a mischievous child who was reborn as a Pokémon.
Violet: It prefers waterfronts with plentiful food. It became nocturnal so it wouldn’t have to compete for food with bird Pokémon.

Ludicolo
Scarlet: There are structures throughout its whole body that produce energy when hit by sound waves with a cheerful rhythm.
Violet: Dancing with an upbeat rhythm energizes and emboldens it, letting it face any foe without fear.

Seedot
Scarlet: To expand its habitat, it pretends to be a nut so that bird Pokémon will pick it up and carry it far away.
Violet: Seedot live in trees, hanging from the branches and leeching moisture. Rows of them can be found dangling from large, young trees.

Nuzleaf
Scarlet: It leads a quiet life deep in the forest. If anything wanders into its territory, Nuzleaf will warn the intruder by sounding its grass flute.
Violet: Its sensory functions are concentrated in its pointed nose, which it uses to sense its surroundings. The nose is also its weak point.

Shiftry
Scarlet: It is said that when Shiftry flaps its leafy fans atop ancient trees, chilly winds blow and the season rolls into winter.
Violet: Legends tell of a bird Pokémon that received divine punishment for its evil deeds and had its beak and wings replaced.

Wingull
Scarlet: It soars high in the sky, riding on updrafts like a glider. It carries food tucked in its bill.
Violet: It rides upon ocean winds as if it were a glider. In the winter, it hides food around its nest.

Pelipper
Scarlet: It is a flying transporter that carries small Pokémon in its beak. It bobs on the waves to rest its wings.
Violet: It protects its young in its beak. It bobs on waves, resting on them on days when the waters are calm.

Ralts
Scarlet: The horns on its head provide a strong power that enables it to sense people’s emotions.
Violet: It is highly attuned to the emotions of people and Pokémon. It hides if it senses hostility.

Kirlia
Scarlet: It has a psychic power that enables it to distort the space around it and see into the future.
Violet: The cheerful spirit of its Trainer gives it energy for its psychokinetic power. It spins and dances when happy.

Gardevoir
Scarlet: To protect its Trainer, it will expend all its psychic power to create a small black hole.
Violet: It unleashes psychokinetic energy at full power when protecting a Trainer it has bonded closely with.

Surskit
Scarlet: They usually live on ponds, but after an evening shower, they may appear on puddles in towns.
Violet: It secretes a thick, sweet-scented syrup from the tip of its head. It lives on weed-choked ponds.

Masquerain
Scarlet: It flaps its four wings to hover and fly freely in any direction—to and fro and sideways.
Violet: The antennae have distinctive patterns that look like eyes. When it rains, they grow heavy, making flight impossible.

Shroomish
Scarlet: It prefers damp places. By day it remains still in the forest shade. It releases toxic powder from its head.
Violet: If it senses danger, it scatters spores from the top of its head to protect itself.

Breloom
Scarlet: It scatters poisonous spores and throws powerful punches while its foe is hampered by inhaled spores.
Violet: The seeds on its tail are made of toxic spores. It knocks out foes with quick, virtually invisible punches.

Slakoth
Scarlet: It sleeps for 20 hours every day. Making drowsy those that see it is one of its abilities.
Violet: The way Slakoth lolls around makes anyone who watches it feel like doing the same.

Vigoroth
Scarlet: Its stress level rises if it cannot keep moving constantly. Too much stress makes it feel sick.
Violet: It is always hungry because it won’t stop rampaging. Even while it is eating, it can’t keep still.

Slaking
Scarlet: It is the world’s most slothful Pokémon. However, it can exert horrifying power by releasing pent-up energy all at once.
Violet: This Pokémon lives lying on its side. It only rolls over and moves when there is no more grass to eat.

Makuhita
Scarlet: It grows stronger by enduring harsh training. It is a gutsy Pokémon that can withstand any attack.
Violet: It toughens up by slamming into thick trees over and over. It gains a sturdy body and dauntless spirit.

Hariyama
Scarlet: It loves challenging others to tests of strength. It has the power to stop a train with a slap.
Violet: It stomps on the ground to build power. It can send a 10-ton truck flying with a straight-arm punch.

Azurill
Scarlet: Its tail bounces like a rubber ball. It flings that tail around to fight opponents bigger than itself.
Violet: Its tail is packed full of the nutrients it needs to grow.

Nosepass
Scarlet: The magnet in Nosepass’s nose provides an unerring compass, making this Pokémon an excellent partner for Trainers going on a journey.
Violet: When endangered, it may protect itself by increasing its magnetism and drawing nearby iron objects to its body.

Sableye
Scarlet: It dwells in the darkness of caves. It uses its sharp claws to dig up gems to nourish itself.
Violet: Materials from gems it has eaten float to the surface of its body and can form an infinite number of patterns among individuals.

Meditite
Scarlet: It never skips its daily yoga training. It heightens its inner strength through meditation.
Violet: It meditates to heighten its inner energy and to float in the air. It eats one berry a day.

Medicham
Scarlet: Through yoga training, it gained the psychic power to predict its foe’s next move.
Violet: It elegantly avoids attacks with dance-like steps, then launches a devastating blow in the same motion.

Plusle
Scarlet: It cheers on partners while scattering sparks from its body. It climbs telephone poles to absorb electricity.
Violet: This Pokémon absorbs electricity from telephone poles. It shorts out the electricity stored inside its body to create noises.

Minun
Scarlet: Exposure to electricity from Minun and Plusle promotes blood circulation and relaxes muscles.
Violet: Its dislike of water makes it take shelter under the eaves of houses in rain. It uses pom-poms made of sparks for cheering.

Volbeat
Scarlet: It lives around clean ponds. At night, its rear lights up. It converses with others by flashing its light.
Violet: It flashes the light on its rear to communicate with other Volbeat. It loves the sweet aroma given off by Illumise.

Illumise
Scarlet: Illumise uses its sweet scent to guide Volbeat, having them form over 200 patterns in the night sky.
Violet: It guides Volbeat to draw signs in the night sky. There are scholars who research the meaning of these signs.

Gulpin
Scarlet: There is nothing its stomach can’t digest. While it is digesting, vile, overpowering gases are expelled.
Violet: It has a small heart and brain. Its stomach comprises most of its body, with enzymes to dissolve anything.

Swalot
Scarlet: It gulps anything that fits in its mouth. Its special enzymes can dissolve anything.
Violet: It can swallow a tire whole in one gulp. It secretes a horribly toxic fluid from the pores on its body.

Numel
Scarlet: Magma of almost 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit courses through its body. When it grows cold, the magma hardens and slows it.
Violet: The flaming magma it stores in the hump on its back is the source of its tremendous power.

Camerupt
Scarlet: It lives in the crater of a volcano. It is well known that the humps on its back erupt every 10 years.
Violet: If angered, the humps on its back erupt in a shower of molten lava. It lives in the craters of volcanoes.

Torkoal
Scarlet: It burns coal inside its shell for energy. It blows out black soot if it is endangered.
Violet: Coal is the source of Torkoal’s energy. Large amounts of coal can be found in the mountains where they live.

Spoink
Scarlet: Spoink will die if it stops bouncing. The pearl on its head amplifies its psychic powers.
Violet: Using its tail like a spring, it keeps its heart beating by bouncing constantly. If it stops, it dies.

Grumpig
Scarlet: It can perform odd dance steps to influence foes. Its style of dancing became hugely popular overseas.
Violet: It uses black pearls to amplify its psychic power. It does a strange dance to control foes’ minds.

Trapinch
Scarlet: This Pokémon lives in arid deserts. It patiently awaits prey inside its funnel-shaped nest.
Violet: As it digs through the sand, its giant jaws crush any rocks that obstruct its path. It builds a funnel-shaped nest.

Vibrava
Scarlet: Rather than using its underdeveloped wings for flight, it rubs them together, emitting ultrasonic waves to attack its enemies.
Violet: It generates ultrasonic waves by vigorously vibrating its wings. After making its prey faint, it dissolves the prey with its digestive juices.

Flygon
Scarlet: Known as the Desert Spirit, this Pokémon hides in the sandstorms it causes by beating its wings.
Violet: The sound of its wings flapping resembles singing. Those entranced by this sound get lured into a sandstorm and become Flygon’s prey.

Cacnea
Scarlet: It prefers harsh environments, such as deserts. It can survive for 30 days on water stored in its body.
Violet: It lives in arid locations. Its yellow flowers bloom once a year.

Cacturne
Scarlet: Packs of them follow travelers through the desert until the travelers can no longer move.
Violet: It lives in deserts. It becomes active at night when it hunts for prey exhausted from the desert’s heat.

Swablu
Scarlet: It constantly grooms its cotton-like wings. It takes a shower to clean itself if it becomes dirty.
Violet: It can’t relax if it or its surroundings are not clean. It wipes off dirt with its wings.

Altaria
Scarlet: If it bonds with a person, it will gently envelop the friend with its soft wings, then hum.
Violet: On sunny days, it flies freely through the sky and blends into the clouds. It sings in a beautiful soprano.

Zangoose
Scarlet: It’s Seviper’s archrival. To threaten those it encounters, it fans out the claws on its front paws.
Violet: If it comes across a Seviper, its fur bristles and it assumes its battle pose. Its sharp claws are its best weapon.

Seviper
Scarlet: It sharpens its swordlike tail on hard rocks. It hides in tall grass and strikes unwary prey with venomous fangs.
Violet: Constant polishing makes the edge of the blade on its tail extremely sharp. It’s Zangoose’s archrival.

Barboach
Scarlet: Its two whiskers provide a sensitive radar. Even in muddy waters, it can detect its prey’s location.
Violet: It probes muddy riverbeds with its two long whiskers. A slimy film protects its body.

Whiscash
Scarlet: It is extremely protective of its territory. If any foe approaches, it attacks using vicious tremors.
Violet: Sighting Whiscash leaping from the water is believed to herald an earthquake.

Corphish
Scarlet: It came from overseas. It is a very hardy creature that will quickly proliferate, even in polluted streams.
Violet: It can live in impure water, where it doesn’t need to compete with other water Pokémon for food, so its numbers have steadily increased.

Crawdaunt
Scarlet: Loving to battle, this Pokémon pinches all Pokémon that enter its territory with its pincers and throws them out.
Violet: A rough customer that wildly flails its giant claws. It is said to be extremely hard to raise.

Feebas
Scarlet: This tough Pokémon is perfectly fine even in dirty water. However, due to its ragged, shabby appearance, it isn’t popular.
Violet: It is the shabbiest Pokémon of all. It forms schools and lives at the bottom of rivers that teem with plant life.

Milotic
Scarlet: Its lovely scales are described as rainbow-colored. They change color depending on the viewing angle.
Violet: It lives at the bottom of clear lakes. In times of war, it shows itself, which soothes people’s minds and hearts.

Shuppet
Scarlet: It loves to feed on feelings like envy and malice. Its upright horn catches the emotions of people.
Violet: It feeds on the dark emotions of sadness and hatred, which make it grow steadily stronger.

Banette
Scarlet: This Pokémon developed from an abandoned doll that amassed a grudge. It is seen in dark alleys.
Violet: Strong feelings of hatred turned a puppet into a Pokémon. If it opens its mouth, its cursed energy escapes.

Duskull
Scarlet: In the dead of night, these Pokémon wander through towns in search of children, whose vital energy is a Duskull’s favorite food.
Violet: Duskull’s victims suffer an intense chill as the Pokémon siphons their life-force away, glaring at them with its bright red eye all the while.

Dusclops
Scarlet: Dusclops is feared because it’s said to pull the soul out of anyone who gazes upon the strange movements of its hands.
Violet: Dusclops’s true form is said to be a bright red eye burning within its body, but no one has ever seen such a thing.

Tropius
Scarlet: It lives in tropical jungles. The bunch of fruit around its neck is delicious. The fruit grows twice a year.
Violet: Delicious fruits grew out from around its neck because it always ate the same kind of fruit.

Chimecho
Scarlet: It uses the sucker on its head to hang from a tree or from eaves. It can produce seven different tones.
Violet: Its cries echo inside its hollow body to emerge as beautiful notes for startling and repelling foes.

Snorunt
Scarlet: It is said that several Snorunt gather under giant leaves and live together in harmony.
Violet: It is said that a home visited by a Snorunt will prosper. It can withstand cold of −150 degrees Fahrenheit.

Glalie
Scarlet: Its prey is instantaneously frozen stiff by the cold air it exhales from its huge mouth. While they’re in that frozen state, it gobbles them up.
Violet: It prevents prey from escaping by instantaneously freezing moisture in the air.

Luvdisc
Scarlet: Its heart-shaped body makes it popular. In some places, you would give a Luvdisc to someone you love.
Violet: During the spawning season, countless Luvdisc congregate at coral reefs, turning the waters pink.

Bagon
Scarlet: Its steel-hard head can shatter boulders. It longingly hopes for wings to grow so it can fly.
Violet: Its belief that it will be able to fly one day is apparently the influence of information carried in its genes.

Shelgon
Scarlet: The cells within its shell transform with explosive speed, preparing it for evolution.
Violet: Its armored body makes all attacks bounce off. The armor is too tough, however, making it heavy and somewhat sluggish.

Salamence
Scarlet: It flies around on its wings, which have grown in at last. In its happiness, it gushes hot flames, burning up everything it passes over.
Violet: It becomes uncontrollable if it is enraged. It destroys everything with shredding claws and fire.

Beldum
Scarlet: The magnetic force generated by its body repels the ground’s natural magnetism, letting it float.
Violet: All its cells are magnets. It communicates with others of its kind by transmitting magnetic forces from its body.

Metang
Scarlet: It is formed by two Beldum joining together. Its two brains are linked, amplifying its psychic power.
Violet: It adores magnetic minerals, so it pursues Nosepass at speeds exceeding 60 mph.

Metagross
Scarlet: It folds its four legs when flying. Its four brains are said to be superior to a supercomputer.
Violet: It firmly pins its prey using its four claws and large body. Then Metagross uses the mouth on its stomach to chew its prey to bits.

Turtwig
Scarlet: The shell on its back is made of soil. If the shell is moist to the touch, Turtwig is very healthy.
Violet: It uses its whole body to photosynthesize when exposed to sunlight. Its shell is made from hardened soil.

Grotle
Scarlet: Grotle live in the forest. Each is said to have its own secret place for getting clean springwater.
Violet: It knows where pure water wells up. It carries fellow Pokémon there on its back.

Torterra
Scarlet: Ancient people imagined that beneath the ground dwelt a gigantic Torterra.
Violet: Some Pokémon are born on a Torterra’s back and spend their entire life there.

Chimchar
Scarlet: It is very agile. Before going to sleep, it extinguishes the flame on its tail to prevent fires.
Violet: The gas made in its belly burns from its rear end. The fire burns weakly when it feels sick.

Monferno
Scarlet: It skillfully controls the intensity of the fire on its tail to keep its foes at an ideal distance.
Violet: A bigger fire on its tail and a brighter blue pattern on its face means it holds a higher rank in its troop.

Infernape
Scarlet: This Pokémon confounds opponents with its speed. It uses all its limbs to fight in its own unique style.
Violet: It uses unique fighting moves with fire on its hands and feet. It will take on any opponent.

Piplup
Scarlet: A poor walker, it often falls down. However, its strong pride makes it puff up its chest without a care.
Violet: It doesn’t like to be taken care of. It’s difficult to bond with since it won’t listen to its Trainer.

Prinplup
Scarlet: It lives a solitary life. Its wings deliver wicked blows that can snap even the thickest of trees in half with a single hit.
Violet: Because every Prinplup considers itself to be the most important, they can never form a group.

Empoleon
Scarlet: If anyone were to hurt its pride, it would slash them in two with wings that can cleave through an ice floe.
Violet: It avoids unnecessary disputes, but it will mercilessly decimate anything that threatens the safety of its colony.

Starly
Scarlet: They flock around mountains and fields, chasing after bug Pokémon. Their singing is noisy and annoying.
Violet: Because they are weak individually, they form groups. However, they bicker if the group grows too big.

Staravia
Scarlet: Recognizing their own weakness, they always live in a group. When alone, a Staravia cries noisily.
Violet: They maintain huge flocks, although fierce scuffles break out between various flocks.

Staraptor
Scarlet: When Staravia evolve into Staraptor, they leave the flock to live alone. They have sturdy wings.
Violet: It never stops attacking even if it is injured. It fusses over the shape of its comb.

Kricketot
Scarlet: Its legs are short. Whenever it stumbles, its stiff antennae clack with a xylophone-like sound.
Violet: When its antennae hit each other, it sounds like the music of a xylophone.

Kricketune
Scarlet: By allowing its cry to resonate in the hollow of its belly, it produces a captivating sound.
Violet: There is a village that hosts a contest based on the amazingly variable cries of this Pokémon.

Shinx
Scarlet: The extension and contraction of its muscles generates electricity. It glows when in trouble.
Violet: The extension and contraction of its muscles generates electricity. Its fur glows when it’s in trouble.

Luxio
Scarlet: Strong electricity courses through the tips of its sharp claws. A light scratch causes fainting in foes.
Violet: By gathering their tails together, they collectively generate powerful electricity from their claws.

Luxray
Scarlet: It can see clearly through walls to track down its prey and seek its lost young.
Violet: Luxray’s ability to see through objects comes in handy when it’s scouting for danger.

Cranidos
Scarlet: It lived in jungles around a hundred million years ago. It used its skillful headbutts to combat Aerodactyl.
Violet: Cranidos toughen up their already sturdy heads by headbutting one another.

Rampardos
Scarlet: Stifled by a thick skull that can withstand any impact, this Pokémon’s brain never got very big.
Violet: If two were to smash their heads together, their foot-thick skulls would keep them from fainting.

Shieldon
Scarlet: It is outstandingly armored. As a result, it has no particular need to battle with others and can spend its time feeding on grass and berries.
Violet: This Pokémon lived in primeval jungles. It’s thought that Shieldon had few enemies thanks to its sturdy face.

Bastiodon
Scarlet: While it can guard against any sort of attack from the front, it is left without recourse when attacked from behind.
Violet: Bastiodon live in herds. When assaulted by enemies, they line up side by side and use their hard faces to block attacks.

Combee
Scarlet: At night, Combee sleep in a group of about a hundred, packed closely together in a lump.
Violet: The trio is together from birth. It constantly gathers nectar from flowers to please Vespiquen.

Vespiquen
Scarlet: It houses its colony in cells in its body and releases various pheromones to make those grubs do its bidding.
Violet: It raises grubs in the holes in its body. It secretes pheromones to control Combee.

Pachirisu
Scarlet: It’s one of the kinds of Pokémon with electric cheek pouches. It shoots charges from its tail.
Violet: A pair may be seen rubbing their cheek pouches together in an effort to share stored electricity.

Buizel
Scarlet: It spins its two tails like a screw to propel itself through water. The tails also slice clinging seaweed.
Violet: It inflates its flotation sac, keeping its face above water in order to watch for prey movement.

Floatzel
Scarlet: With its flotation sac inflated, it can carry people on its back. It deflates the sac before it dives.
Violet: It is a common sight around fishing ports. It is known to rescue people and help fishers carry what they caught.

Shellos (West Sea)
Scarlet: It used to have a shell on its back long ago. This species is closely related to Pokémon like Shellder.
Violet: It oozes a purple fluid to deter enemies. Apparently, there are more West Sea Shellos now than there were in the past.

Shellos (East Sea)
Scarlet: A recently published research paper states that this form of Shellos is gradually decreasing in number.
Violet: This Pokémon can often be seen along seashores. It’s capable of spending a limited amount of time on land.

Gastrodon (West Sea)
Scarlet: Its whole body is sticky with mucus. In the past, this form of Gastrodon was by far the more numerous one.
Violet: It appears on beaches where the waters are shallow. Once it catches prey, it will slowly melt them with its mucus before slurping them up.

Gastrodon (East Sea)
Scarlet: They normally inhabit rocky seashores, but in times of continuous rain, they can sometimes be found in the mountains, far from the sea.
Violet: Fishers say that they didn’t see many of these Pokémon in the past, but this form of Gastrodon is now increasing in number.

Ambipom
Scarlet: They live on large trees. They are said to communicate by connecting their tails to those of others.
Violet: Split into two, the tails are so adept at handling and doing things that Ambipom rarely uses its hands.

Drifloon
Scarlet: It is whispered that any child who mistakes Drifloon for a balloon and holds on to it could wind up missing.
Violet: Because of the way it floats aimlessly, an old folktale calls it a “signpost for wandering spirits.”

Drifblim
Scarlet: It can generate and release gas within its body. That’s how it can control the altitude of its drift.
Violet: They carry people and Pokémon, but the wind can catch them, so there can’t be a fixed destination.

Mismagius
Scarlet: Its cry sounds like an incantation. It is said the cry may rarely be imbued with happiness-giving power.
Violet: Its cries sound like incantations to torment the foe. It appears where you least expect it.

Honchkrow
Scarlet: It is merciless by nature. It is said that it never forgives the mistakes of its Murkrow followers.
Violet: A single cry from this nocturnal Pokémon, and more than 100 of its Murkrow cronies will assemble.

Chingling
Scarlet: There is an orb inside its mouth. When it hops, the orb bounces all over and makes a ringing sound.
Violet: It emits high-frequency cries that people can’t hear. Once it starts, it can cry for an awfully long time.

Stunky
Scarlet: It sprays a foul fluid from its rear. Its stench spreads over a mile radius, driving Pokémon away.
Violet: The foul fluid from its rear is so revolting that it can make people feel queasy up to a mile and a quarter away.

Skuntank
Scarlet: It attacks by spraying a horribly smelly fluid from the tip of its tail. Attacks from above confound it.
Violet: It attacks by spraying a repugnant fluid from its tail, but the stench dulls after a few squirts.

Bronzor
Scarlet: Ancient people believed that the pattern on Bronzor’s back contained a mysterious power.
Violet: They are found in ancient tombs. The patterns on their backs are said to be imbued with mysterious power.

Bronzong
Scarlet: In ages past, this Pokémon was revered as a bringer of rain. It was found buried in the ground.
Violet: It brought rains by opening portals to another world. It was revered as a bringer of plentiful harvests.

Bonsly
Scarlet: In order to adjust the level of fluids in its body, it exudes water from its eyes. This makes it appear to be crying.
Violet: From its eyes, it can expel excess moisture from its body. This liquid is similar in composition to human sweat.

Happiny
Scarlet: It carries a round, white rock in its belly pouch. If it gets along well with someone, it will sometimes give that person the rock.
Violet: It carefully carries a round, white rock that it thinks is an egg. It’s bothered by how curly its hair looks.

Spiritomb
Scarlet: Its constant mischief and misdeeds resulted in it being bound to an Odd Keystone by a mysterious spell.
Violet: It was formed by uniting 108 spirits. It has been bound to the Odd Keystone to keep it from doing any mischief.

Gible
Scarlet: It skulks in caves, and when prey or an enemy passes by, it leaps out and chomps them. The force of its attack sometimes chips its teeth.
Violet: It nests in horizontal holes warmed by geothermal heat. Foes who get too close can expect to be pounced on and bitten.

Gabite
Scarlet: In rare cases, it molts and sheds its scales. Medicine containing its scales as an ingredient will make a weary body feel invigorated.
Violet: It loves sparkly things. It seeks treasures in caves and hoards the loot in its nest.

Garchomp
Scarlet: It is said that when one runs at high speed, its wings create blades of wind that can fell nearby trees.
Violet: The protuberances on its head serve as sensors. It can even detect distant prey.

Munchlax
Scarlet: It needs to consume its own weight in food every day. As far as flavor is concerned, it’s indifferent.
Violet: When it is voraciously gulping down food, it forgets about the food it has hidden under its fur.

Riolu
Scarlet: They communicate with one another using their auras. They are able to run all through the night.
Violet: It has the peculiar power of being able to see emotions, such as joy and rage, in the form of waves.

Lucario
Scarlet: It’s said that no foe can remain invisible to Lucario, since it can detect auras—even those of foes it could not otherwise see.
Violet: A well-trained one can use its aura to identify and take in the feelings of creatures over half a mile away.

Hippopotas
Scarlet: It shuts its nostrils tight, then travels through sand as if walking. They form colonies of around 10.
Violet: It shrouds itself in sand to ward off germs. It travels easily through the sands of the desert.

Hippowdon
Scarlet: It is surprisingly quick to anger. It holds its mouth agape as a display of its strength.
Violet: It brandishes its gaping mouth in a display of fearsome strength. It raises vast quantities of sand while attacking.

Croagunk
Scarlet: Inflating its poison sacs, it fills the area with an odd sound and hits flinching opponents with a poison jab.
Violet: It rarely fights fairly, but that is strictly to ensure survival. It is popular as a mascot.

Toxicroak
Scarlet: Swaying and dodging the attacks of its foes, it weaves its flexible body in close, then lunges out with its poisonous claws.
Violet: It has a poison sac at its throat. When it croaks, the stored poison is churned for greater potency.

Finneon
Scarlet: The line running down its side can store sunlight. It shines vividly at night.
Violet: It absorbs sunlight with the pink areas of its skin, which then shine. This appears to be a form of camouflage.

Lumineon
Scarlet: With its shining light, it lures its prey close. However, the light also happens to attract ferocious fish Pokémon—its natural predators.
Violet: Lumineon swimming in the darkness of the deep sea look like stars shining in the night sky.

Snover
Scarlet: During cold seasons, it migrates to the mountain’s lower reaches. It returns to the snow-covered summit in the spring.
Violet: Seemingly curious about people, they gather around footsteps they find on snowy mountains.

Abomasnow
Scarlet: It lives a quiet life on mountains that are perpetually covered in snow. It hides itself by whipping up blizzards.
Violet: They appear when the snow flowers bloom. When the petals fall, they retreat to places unknown again.

Weavile
Scarlet: Evolution made it even more devious. It communicates by clawing signs in boulders.
Violet: They travel in groups of four or five, leaving signs for one another on trees and rocks. They bring down their prey with coordinated attacks.

Magnezone
Scarlet: As it zooms through the sky, this Pokémon seems to be receiving signals of unknown origin while transmitting signals of unknown purpose.
Violet: Exposure to a special magnetic field changed Magneton’s molecular structure, turning it into Magnezone.

Rhyperior
Scarlet: This Pokémon’s sturdy carapace protects it from volcanic eruptions. It shoots round rocks from the holes in its hands.
Violet: A Rhyperior’s brain is smaller than a Rhydon’s, but the Rhyperior is stronger because it spends more energy on battling and less on brainpower.

Electivire
Scarlet: When it gets excited, it thumps its chest. With every thud, thunder roars and electric sparks shower all around.
Violet: This Pokémon presses the tips of its tails onto an opponent and instantly sends over 20,000 volts of high-voltage electricity through them.

Magmortar
Scarlet: When shooting 3,600 degree Fahrenheit fireballs from its arms, its body takes on a whitish hue from the intense heat.
Violet: They dwell in volcanic craters. It’s said that only a single pair of Magmortar will inhabit any given volcano.

Yanmega
Scarlet: Yanmega’s wingbeats are so powerful that the Pokémon blows down huge trees nearby when it vigorously launches itself into flight.
Violet: Its jaw power is incredible. It is adept at biting apart foes while flying by at high speed.

Leafeon
Scarlet: When you see Leafeon asleep in a patch of sunshine, you’ll know it is using photosynthesis to produce clean air.
Violet: The younger they are, the more they smell like fresh grass. With age, their fragrance takes on the odor of fallen leaves.

Glaceon
Scarlet: It can control its body temperature at will. This enables it to freeze the moisture in the atmosphere, creating flurries of diamond dust.
Violet: It lowers its body heat to freeze its fur. The hairs then become like needles it can fire.

Gliscor
Scarlet: If it succeeds in catching even a faint breeze properly, it can circle the globe without flapping once.
Violet: It flies soundlessly through the sky. It catches prey with its long tail, then lunges at the prey’s vulnerable spots with its fangs.

Mamoswine
Scarlet: A frozen Mamoswine was dug from ice dating back 10,000 years. This Pokémon has been around a long, long, long time.
Violet: A frozen one was dug up from soil dating back 10,000 years. It woke up, to much amazement.

Porygon-Z
Scarlet: An additional program was installed to create a more advanced Pokémon, but it was apparently flawed. Porygon-Z moves oddly as a result.
Violet: Its programming was modified to enable it to operate in other dimensions. This did not work as planned.

Gallade
Scarlet: When trying to protect someone, it extends its elbows as if they were swords and fights savagely.
Violet: Because it can sense what its foe is thinking, its attacks burst out first, fast, and fierce.

Probopass
Scarlet: It controls three units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force. With them, it can attack a foe from three directions.
Violet: Probopass radiates such a powerful magnetic field that nearby electrical appliances are rendered useless while it’s around.

Dusknoir
Scarlet: It is said to take lost spirits into its pliant body and take them to the afterlife.
Violet: It comes and goes between this world and the afterlife. People fear this Pokémon because it is said to suck in lost spirits and take them along.

Froslass
Scarlet: When it finds humans or Pokémon it likes, it freezes them and takes them to its chilly den, where they become decorations.
Violet: It freezes prey by blowing its −58 degree Fahrenheit breath. It is said to then secretly display its prey.

Rotom
Scarlet: Its electricity-like body can enter some kinds of machines and take control in order to make mischief.
Violet: Research continues on this Pokémon, which could be the power source of a unique motor.

Heat Rotom
Scarlet: If the convection microwave oven is not working properly, then the Rotom inhabiting it will become lethargic.
Violet: This Rotom has possessed a convection microwave oven. It will sear the surrounding area with its burning heat, then smile in delight.

Wash Rotom
Scarlet: This Rotom has entered a washing machine. It nods with satisfaction after it floods the surrounding area.
Violet: The model of washing machine that Rotom can inspirit has been discontinued, so these appliances are now traded at high prices.

Frost Rotom
Scarlet: This Rotom has entered a refrigerator. It leaps around gleefully after it uses cold air to freeze the area around it.
Violet: The special motor within the refrigerator is the key to bringing about Rotom’s change in form.

Fan Rotom
Scarlet: This Rotom has entered an electric fan. It smirks with satisfaction over a prank well pulled after it blows away everything around it.
Violet: There are several appliances that Rotom can inspirit, but the first one to be developed was the electric fan.

Mow Rotom
Scarlet: The lawn mower is one of the household appliances that led to the development of the Rotom Dex.
Violet: This Rotom has possessed a lawn mower. It will mow down grass and flowers, then swagger around with pride at its accomplishments.

Snivy
Scarlet: The leaf on Snivy’s tail generates energy when exposed to sunlight, making Snivy swifter and adding an edge to its moves.
Violet: It prefers to avoid groups. In its day-to-day life, it dexterously controls its vines to compensate for its short arms.

Servine
Scarlet: It runs low to the ground, weaving through the grass, then mercilessly pummels its target by whipping them with its vines.
Violet: Servine’s one weakness is its inflated sense of pride. It takes a while for Servine to be able to cooperate with other Pokémon.

Serperior
Scarlet: It generates energy from sunlight, then amplifies that energy dozens of times within its long body.
Violet: An intimidating gaze and majestic appearance have caused this Pokémon to be known as the Lord of the Forest.

Tepig
Scarlet: It’s more nimble than it looks, and it uses its speed to confound its enemies. It rapidly launches fireballs from both nostrils.
Violet: This Pokémon is a ravenous glutton. It uses its excellent sense of smell to find food, then cooks it to a crisp before eating.

Pignite
Scarlet: When Pignite enters battle, its body temperature rapidly soars until Pignite itself is engulfed by a scorching fireball.
Violet: When defending its friends, Pignite will stand up to any opponent, no matter how strong. But it’s powerless when faced with an empty stomach.

Emboar
Scarlet: The flames blazing deep inside Emboar’s chest erupt vigorously from its chin, forming a beard of fire.
Violet: The direr the situation, the more it seems to enjoy itself. The flames around its neck intensify, too, increasing Emboar’s power and speed.

Oshawott
Scarlet: It wields the scalchop on its stomach like a knife, blocking the moves of its enemies before slashing back at them in swift retaliation.
Violet: It’s said that Oshawott learned to maintain its scalchop with riverbed stones by mimicking humans it saw using whetstones.

Dewott
Scarlet: It’s said that people modeled swordplay after the way Dewott’s movements flow like water while it’s wielding its two scalchops.
Violet: Dewott has a studious and stern personality. It masters the use of its scalchops through dedicated, repeated training.

Samurott
Scarlet: A master of a sword-drawing art called iaijutsu, Samurott settles its battles with a single swing of either large sword sheathed in its foreleg armor.
Violet: Samurott leads its group strictly. Those who do not follow its rules receive a merciless thrashing.

Blitzle
Scarlet: Its heartbeat generates electricity. When Blitzle is surprised and its heart rate goes up, the voltage of its electricity also rises.
Violet: This Pokémon prefers places with lots of lightning strikes. It catches lightning with its mane and stores the electricity within its body.

Zebstrika
Scarlet: This Pokémon is aggressive and has a volatile disposition. When agitated, it will illuminate its mane in yellow and fire off bolts of electricity.
Violet: Once the herd hears thunder, it chases after the storm clouds so that the Blitzle in the group can use the lightning to charge up.

Drilbur
Scarlet: It can dig through the ground at a speed of 30 mph. It could give a car running aboveground a good race.
Violet: It makes its way swiftly through the soil by putting both claws together and rotating at high speed.

Excadrill
Scarlet: Forming a drill with its steel claws and head, it can bore through a steel plate, no matter how thick it is.
Violet: Its drill, which has evolved into steel, is strong enough to bore through iron plates. This Pokémon is a great help in tunnel construction.

Timburr
Scarlet: Always carrying squared logs, they help out with construction. As they grow, they carry bigger logs.
Violet: It fights by swinging a piece of lumber around. It is close to evolving when it can handle heavy lumber without difficulty.

Gurdurr
Scarlet: They strengthen their bodies by carrying steel beams. They show off their big muscles to their friends.
Violet: This Pokémon is so muscular and strongly built that even a group of wrestlers could not make it budge an inch.

Conkeldurr
Scarlet: It is thought that Conkeldurr taught humans how to make concrete more than 2,000 years ago.
Violet: Rather than rely on their strength, they master moves that make good use of centrifugal force to swing around concrete.

Sewaddle
Scarlet: Sewaddle chews on leaves to make its clothing. It’s trying to mimic the leafy garment Leavanny first dressed it in.
Violet: The bumps on their heads are sensory organs. When Sewaddle meet, they greet each other by rubbing these bumps together.

Swadloon
Scarlet: Swadloon lives quietly at the feet of trees. It prefers eating fallen leaves that have grown soft rather than fresh ones.
Violet: Swadloon wraps itself in leaves for protection. It uses the two leaves atop its head to detect air movements and feel out its surroundings.

Leavanny
Scarlet: This gentle Pokémon has strong protective instincts. The leaves on its arms are sharp enough to slice a thick tree in half with one stroke.
Violet: It fashions clothing from woven leaves. Though gentle in disposition, it will show no mercy to foes who target young Pokémon.

Cottonee
Scarlet: Pillows and beds stuffed with cotton exhaled by Cottonee are soft and puffy, light and airy— altogether top quality.
Violet: When attacked, it escapes by shooting cotton from its body. The cotton serves as a decoy to distract the attacker.

Whimsicott
Scarlet: Like the wind, it can slip through any gap, no matter how small. It leaves balls of white fluff behind.
Violet: It rides on the wind and slips into people’s homes. After it has turned a room into a cotton-filled mess, it giggles to itself and takes off.

Petilil
Scarlet: The leaves on its head grow right back even if they fall out. These bitter leaves refresh those who eat them.
Violet: If the leaves on its head are pruned with regularity, this Pokémon can be grown into a fine plump shape.

Lilligant
Scarlet: The fragrance of the garland on its head has a relaxing effect, but taking care of it is very difficult.
Violet: No matter how much time and money is spent raising it, its flowers are the most beautiful when they bloom in the wild.

Basculin (Red-Striped Form)
Scarlet: Its temperament is vicious and aggressive. This Pokémon is also full of vitality and can multiply rapidly before anyone notices.
Violet: It’s so vicious that it’s called the Thug of the River. Yet Basculin is still targeted by predators, such as Dondozo and Bombirdier.

Basculin (Blue-Striped Form)
Scarlet: These Pokémon form schools with others of the same color. The greatest foe of a school of blue Basculin is a school of red Basculin.
Violet: The power of its jaws is immense—enough to leave teeth marks in iron sheets. Its personality is also extremely vicious.

Basculin (White-Striped Form)
Scarlet: They live in frigid seas, forming schools and sharing food among themselves. When the time comes, they return to the river they were born in.
Violet: Its ecology is starkly different from that of other Basculin, so theories that it’s a totally different species have gained traction in recent years.

Sandile
Scarlet: It submerges itself in sand and moves as if swimming. This wise behavior keeps its enemies from finding it and maintains its temperature.
Violet: They live hidden under hot desert sands in order to keep their body temperature from dropping.

Krokorok
Scarlet: Protected by thin membranes, their eyes can see even in the dead of night. They live in groups of a few individuals.
Violet: Thanks to the special membrane covering its eyes, it can see its surroundings clearly, even in the middle of the night.

Krookodile
Scarlet: After clamping down with its powerful jaws, it twists its body around to rip its prey in half.
Violet: Its unique faculty of sight can detect small prey more than 30 miles away, even in the midst of a sandstorm.

Scraggy
Scarlet: It stretches its saggy skin up to its neck to protect itself. Among Scraggy, individuals with saggier skin apparently garner more respect.
Violet: It will abruptly headbutt anyone that makes eye contact with it. Its skull is extremely hard.

Scrafty
Scarlet: Groups of them beat up anything that enters their territory. Each can spit acidic liquid from its mouth.
Violet: This Pokémon may be rude, but it takes very good care of its family, its friends, and its turf.

Zorua
Scarlet: It changes into the forms of others to surprise them. Apparently, it often transforms into a silent child.
Violet: To protect themselves from danger, they hide their true identities by transforming into people and Pokémon.

Zoroark
Scarlet: Stories say those who tried to catch Zoroark were trapped in an illusion and punished.
Violet: Each has the ability to fool a large group of people simultaneously. They protect their lair with illusory scenery.

Minccino
Scarlet: When its tail has gotten dirty from self-cleaning or from cleaning its nest, Minccino spends a whole day washing its tail in clean springwater.
Violet: These Pokémon like things neat and tidy. They are always sweeping and dusting their habitat, using their tails as brooms.

Cinccino
Scarlet: Their white fur is coated in a special oil that makes it easy for them to deflect attacks.
Violet: The oil that seeps from its body is really smooth. For people troubled by bad skin, this oil is an effective treatment.

Gothita
Scarlet: This Pokémon is normally very innocent. When it is staring at something invisible, it is unblinking and utterly silent.
Violet: Beware of touching the ribbon-shaped feelers that control its psychic power. Gothita will begin bawling if you do.

Gothorita
Scarlet: This Pokémon will hypnotize children to put them to sleep before carrying them away. Be wary of nights when the starlight is bright.
Violet: Using its psychic power, it arranges pebbles to form the shapes of constellations. Some people believe this Pokémon came from outer space.

Gothitelle
Scarlet: Gothitelle unleashes psychic energy and shows opponents dreams of the universe’s end. These dreams are apparently ethereal and beautiful.
Violet: It gazes at the stars to predict the future. It acts somewhat detached because it has seen the end of all existence.

Solosis
Scarlet: Because their bodies are enveloped in a special liquid, they can survive in any environment.
Violet: They drive away attackers by unleashing psychic power. They can use telepathy to talk with others.

Duosion
Scarlet: Since they have two divided brains, at times they suddenly try to take two different actions at once.
Violet: When their brains, now divided in two, are thinking the same thoughts, these Pokémon exhibit their maximum power.

Reuniclus
Scarlet: Their arms are made of a special liquid. They use psychic power to control these arms and crush boulders.
Violet: When Reuniclus shake hands, a network forms between their brains, increasing their psychic power.

Ducklett
Scarlet: It’s not very good at flying yet. It watches the dances of its Swanna parents to learn how to move its wings.
Violet: It strengthens its body by diving into the depths of ponds, swimming around while looking for bog moss to eat.

Swanna
Scarlet: Centered around its leader, the flock dances in perfect sync to strengthen its unity.
Violet: It’s said that many artists have taken inspiration from the sight of a Swanna performing a beautiful dance in the light of dawn.

Deerling (Spring Form)
Scarlet: Deerling have different scents depending on the season. In early spring, these Pokémon give off a delicate, sweet, and calming scent.
Violet: Despite Deerling’s adorable appearance, farmers consider it a nuisance since it loves plant shoots and will eat them all up.

Deerling (Summer Form)
Scarlet: To prevent Deerling from entering their fields, many farmers will have several Lycanroc stand guard, as they are the natural enemy of Deerling.
Violet: Deerling have different scents depending on the season. When a distinct grassy smell starts to waft from one, you know that summer has begun.

Deerling (Autumn Form)
Scarlet: These Pokémon are not shy—they will behave as they please, even in front of people. If you feed one of them, it will quickly take a liking to you.
Violet: Deerling have different scents depending on the season. In this form, Deerling have a softly sweet scent that lingers in the nose.

Deerling (Winter Form)
Scarlet: Deerling’s scent changes with the seasons, but when the Pokémon is in its Winter Form, it has hardly any scent at all.
Violet: This Pokémon will playfully headbutt those it gets along well with. It has antlers hidden under its flower, so the headbutts are a little painful.

Sawsbuck (Spring Form)
Scarlet: It seems that a Sawsbuck with many flowers on its antlers will grow at a slightly slower pace because the flowers absorb the Pokémon’s nutrients.
Violet: There are many Sawsbuck enthusiasts. The paler the pink flowers that bloom on its antlers, the more beautiful the Sawsbuck is considered to be.

Sawsbuck (Summer Form)
Scarlet: There are many Sawsbuck enthusiasts. The thicker and larger the branches and leaves on its antlers, the more majestic the Sawsbuck is thought to be.
Violet: This Pokémon’s leaves can be made into a black tea, the taste of which varies depending on the region of origin. Paldea’s is especially aromatic.

Sawsbuck (Autumn Form)
Scarlet: There are many Sawsbuck enthusiasts. The darker the red of the foliage that hangs from its antlers, the more stylish the Sawsbuck is thought to be.
Violet: Sawsbuck in their Autumn Form are known for having very short tempers. The males fight each other incessantly.

Sawsbuck (Winter Form)
Scarlet: It’s said that Sawsbuck are calm and easy to tame during the season when they take on this form, so it’s the perfect time to make one your partner.
Violet: Though there are many enthusiasts for Sawsbuck as a species, this seasonal form in particular is not very popular.

Foongus
Scarlet: There is a theory that the developer of the modern-day Poké Ball really liked Foongus, but this has not been confirmed.
Violet: This Pokémon prefers damp places. It spurts out poison spores to repel approaching enemies.

Amoonguss
Scarlet: Be wary of the poisonous spores it releases. Mushrooms resembling Amoonguss’s caps will grow out of anywhere the spores touch.
Violet: Amoonguss mimics Poké Balls. It is not yet clear whether this mimicry is effective against other Pokémon.

Alomomola
Scarlet: It gently holds injured and weak Pokémon in its fins. Its special membrane heals their wounds.
Violet: They float upon the open sea. Many water Pokémon gather in the area around Alomomola.

Joltik
Scarlet: Joltik that live in cities have learned a technique for sucking electricity from the outlets in houses.
Violet: Since it can’t generate its own electricity, it sticks onto large-bodied Pokémon and absorbs static electricity.

Galvantula
Scarlet: They employ an electrically charged web to trap their prey. While it is immobilized by shock, they leisurely consume it.
Violet: When attacked, they create an electric barrier by spitting out many electrically charged threads.

Tynamo
Scarlet: While one alone doesn’t have much power, a chain of many Tynamo can be as powerful as lightning.
Violet: These Pokémon move in schools. They have an electricity-generating organ, so they discharge electricity if in danger.

Eelektrik
Scarlet: They coil around foes and shock them with electricity-generating organs that seem simply to be circular patterns.
Violet: These Pokémon have a big appetite. When they spot their prey, they attack it and paralyze it with electricity.

Eelektross
Scarlet: They crawl out of the ocean using their arms. They will attack prey on shore and immediately drag it into the ocean.
Violet: It latches on to prey with its sucker mouth, sinking in its fangs and shocking the prey with powerful electricity.

Litwick
Scarlet: Its flame is usually out, but it starts shining when Litwick absorbs life-force from people or Pokémon.
Violet: While shining a light and pretending to be a guide, it leeches off the life-force of any who follow it.

Lampent
Scarlet: Lampent appears at the moment of death and promptly absorbs the spirit as it leaves the body.
Violet: The spirits it absorbs fuel its baleful fire. It hangs around hospitals waiting for people to pass on.

Chandelure
Scarlet: The spirits burned up in its ominous flame lose their way and wander this world forever.
Violet: It absorbs spirits, which it then burns. By waving the flames on its arms, it puts its foes into a hypnotic trance.

Axew
Scarlet: This Pokémon lives in nests that are made in the ground. People in ancient times used its tusks as cooking knives.
Violet: If you see peculiar teeth marks on boulders or trees, it means an Axew is likely living nearby.

Fraxure
Scarlet: Because its tusks don’t grow back once they break, this Pokémon apparently won’t use them unless truly necessary.
Violet: Fraxure uses its thick tusks to neatly cut prey into two portions—one to eat now and one to save for later.

Haxorus
Scarlet: This Pokémon nests in caves and abandoned mines. It is docile, but it will become incredibly angry if its tusks are touched, so beware.
Violet: It overwhelms enemies with its prized tusks, which are sharp enough to cut through a metal transmission tower in one strike.

Cubchoo
Scarlet: Many of this species can be found along the shorelines of cold regions. If a Cubchoo lacks dangling snot, there’s a chance it is sick.
Violet: When Cubchoo starts sneezing, watch out! If it spatters you with its frosty snot, you’ll get frostbite.

Beartic
Scarlet: It is a ferocious, carnivorous Pokémon. Once it captures its prey, it will breathe cold air onto the prey to freeze and preserve it.
Violet: Feared as the Snow-White Demon in northern lands, Beartic uses its frosty claws and fangs to attack prey.

Cryogonal
Scarlet: Cryogonal appear during cold seasons. It is said that people and Pokémon who die on snowy mountains are reborn into these Pokémon.
Violet: Cryogonal uses its chains of ice to constrict its opponents and then flash-freezes them where they stand.

Mienfoo
Scarlet: In fights, they dominate with onslaughts of flowing, continuous attacks. With their sharp claws, they cut enemies.
Violet: They seclude themselves in the mountains and devote themselves to training. The form of their kicks and chops differs from pack to pack.

Mienshao
Scarlet: When Mienshao lets out a bizarre wail, you’re in danger. A flurry of kicks and chops too fast to see is about to be unleashed!
Violet: Using the long fur on its arms like whips, it launches into combo attacks that, once started, no one can stop.

Golett
Scarlet: These Pokémon are thought to have been created by the science of an ancient and mysterious civilization.
Violet: Its movements are powered by a mysterious energy. It has continued to move since ancient times, so its power may soon run out.

Golurk
Scarlet: When the seal on its chest is removed, it rages indiscriminately. During such rampages, it can turn a whole town into a mountain of rubble.
Violet: Golurk were created by ancient people to protect both people and Pokémon. They run on a mysterious energy.

Pawniard
Scarlet: Pawniard will fearlessly challenge even powerful foes. In a pinch, it will cling to opponents and pierce them with the blades all over its body.
Violet: Any chips in its blades would prove fatal for it. After each battle, it diligently maintains its blades using its favorite sharpening stone.

Bisharp
Scarlet: This Pokémon commands a group of several Pawniard. Groups that are defeated in territorial disputes are absorbed by the winning side.
Violet: Bisharp mercilessly cuts its opponents to pieces with the sharp blades covering its body. It will do anything to win.

Rufflet
Scarlet: They pick fights indiscriminately. They grow stronger and more powerful each time they faint or are injured.
Violet: With its sharp claws, this Pokémon pierces its prey, and then it pecks at them. Although it also consumes berries, it’s a carnivore at heart.

Braviary
Scarlet: The more scars they have, the more respect these brave soldiers of the sky get from their peers.
Violet: For the sake of its friends, this brave warrior of the sky will not stop battling, even if injured.

Vullaby
Scarlet: They tend to guard their posteriors with suitable bones they have found. They pursue weak Pokémon.
Violet: Its healthy appetite leads to visible growth spurts. It often has to replace the bones it wears as its size increases.

Mandibuzz
Scarlet: It’s always searching for food for Vullaby. When it finds a weak Pokémon, Mandibuzz swoops it right off to its nest.
Violet: Watching from the sky, they attack weakened prey on the ground. They have a habit of decorating themselves with bones.

Deino
Scarlet: It can’t see, so its first approach to examining things is to bite them. You will be covered in wounds until a Deino warms up to you.
Violet: It nests deep inside a cave. Food there is scarce, so Deino will sink its teeth into anything that moves and attempt to eat it.

Zweilous
Scarlet: The two heads do not get along at all. If you don’t give each head the same amount of attention, they’ll begin fighting out of jealousy.
Violet: The two heads have different likes and dislikes. Because the heads fight with each other, Zweilous gets stronger without needing to rely on others.

Hydreigon
Scarlet: Only the central head has a brain. It is very intelligent, but it thinks only of destruction.
Violet: It’s said that Hydreigon grew ferocious because people in times long past loathed it, considering it to be evil incarnate and attacking it relentlessly.

Larvesta
Scarlet: This Pokémon was called the Larva That Stole the Sun. The fire Larvesta spouts from its horns can cut right through a sheet of iron.
Violet: In ancient times, Larvesta was worshiped as the emissary of the sun. However, it was also viewed as a burden since it often caused forest fires.

Volcarona
Scarlet: Its burning body causes it to be unpopular in hot parts of the world, but in cold ones, Volcarona is revered as an embodiment of the sun.
Violet: This Pokémon scatters burning scales. Most of the danger of these scales is not in their heat—it’s in the way they rob the surrounding air of oxygen.

Chespin
Scarlet: When Chespin tenses up just before landing a headbutt, the spikes on its head sharpen to points, piercing the enemy’s body on contact.
Violet: Eating lots of berries makes the bark shell that covers Chespin’s head and body grow sturdier.

Quilladin
Scarlet: It’s protected by a sturdy shell. The shell is also very heavy, which naturally strengthens Quilladin’s lower body.
Violet: It can send a trailer flying with a tackle. It’s numb to pain, so even violent collisions don’t faze it.

Chesnaught
Scarlet: When its allies are in trouble, Chesnaught creates a shield with its arms and uses its own body to block attacks.
Violet: Its gentle disposition would have it avoid conflict, but it gives opponents a thrashing with its thorned fists when the situation calls for it.

Fennekin
Scarlet: This Pokémon gets worked up easily. Its body can also overheat, so it uses its ears to dissipate the heat and calm down.
Violet: Twigs make for Fennekin’s snacks. When it nibbles on twigs, it finds the courage to face strong foes.

Braixen
Scarlet: It ignites the twig from its tail and waves the twig around to signal its allies. To indicate danger, it draws circles in the air with the twig’s flame.
Violet: Braixen’s branch ignites as it’s pulled from the Pokémon’s tail. Braixen then uses the flame to spark powerful attacks.

Delphox
Scarlet: It leaves burn marks in the ground with the flame at the tip of its wand. Long ago, people used the shapes of these burn marks for divination.
Violet: It controls flames telekinetically, trapping its foes in a fiery vortex surpassing 5,400 degrees Fahrenheit and burning them to a crisp.

Froakie
Scarlet: Its happy-go-lucky look is an act intended to fool its enemies. It will suddenly drop the facade and overwhelm its foes with its blinding speed.
Violet: It utilizes its extraordinary jumping abilities to flummox its foes, throwing springy bubbles at them from above their heads.

Frogadier
Scarlet: It excels at devising battle strategies that make use of the terrain, and it never misses its mark when throwing bubble-covered pebbles.
Violet: The tips of its fingers and toes stick firmly to vertical surfaces. Frogadier can scale skyscrapers with ease.

Greninja
Scarlet: The movement of air against the long tongue Greninja keeps wrapped around its neck allows it to sense enemies it can’t see.
Violet: It makes shuriken out of mucus excreted from its thighs. These shuriken can cut cleanly through steel cables.

Fletchling
Scarlet: This Pokémon is normally calm, but once it enters battle, its hormonal balance changes and it becomes aggressive.
Violet: Fletchling can be found in both rural and urban areas. They once had a huge territorial dispute with Squawkabilly. Fights broke out all over town.

Fletchinder
Scarlet: Fletchinder scatters embers in tall grass where bug Pokémon might be hiding and then catches them as they come leaping out.
Violet: Its territory has a radius of just over a mile. If any bird Pokémon should enter, it will show them no mercy.

Talonflame
Scarlet: It has top-notch flying capabilities. It flies around easily, even while carrying prey that weighs more than 220 lbs.
Violet: When it gets excited, it vents sparks from the gaps between its feathers. These unburnable feathers are used as a fireproof material.

Scatterbug
Scarlet: Any poison this Pokémon takes in is converted into a black powder and secreted. That’s why Scatterbug can eat poisonous leaves and roots.
Violet: This Pokémon scatters poisonous powder to repel enemies. It will eat different plants depending on where it lives.

Spewpa
Scarlet: If Rufflet attacks this Pokémon by pecking at it, it will retaliate with its sharp fur and poisonous black powder.
Violet: Spewpa doesn’t live in a fixed location. It roams where it pleases across the fields and mountains, building up the energy it needs to evolve.

Vivillon (Archipelago Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from places with many islands.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a place with many islands. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Continental Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands of vast space.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land of vast space. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Elegant Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands with distinct seasons.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land with distinct seasons. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Fancy Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from a mysterious land.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a mysterious land. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Garden Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from verdant lands.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a verdant land. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (High Plains Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands with little rain.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land with little rain. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Icy Snow Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from frigid lands.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in frigid lands. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Jungle Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands of tropical rain forests.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land of tropical rain forests. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Marine Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands with ocean breezes.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land with ocean breezes. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Meadow Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands where flowers bloom.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land where flowers bloom. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Modern Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from sun-drenched lands.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a sun-drenched land. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Monsoon Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands with intense rainfall.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land with intense rainfall. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Ocean Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands of perpetual summer.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land of perpetual summer. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Poké Ball Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from a special land.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a special land. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Polar Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from snowy lands.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a snowy land. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (River Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands where large rivers flow.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land where large rivers flow. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Sandstorm Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from parched lands.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a parched land. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Savanna Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands with a tropical climate.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land with a tropical climate. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Sun Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands bathed in light.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land bathed in light. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Vivillon (Tundra Pattern)
Scarlet: The patterns on this Pokémon depend on the climate and topography of the land it was born in. This form is from lands of severe cold.
Violet: This Pokémon was born in a land of severe cold. It scatters colorful, toxic scales from its wings during battle.

Litleo
Scarlet: When Litleo are young, female Pyroar will teach them how to hunt. Once the Litleo mature, they will leave the pride and set out on their own.
Violet: The more a Litleo trains its body and spirit by battling mighty enemies, the hotter its mane will grow.

Pyroar
Scarlet: The females of a pride work together to bring down prey. It’s thanks to them that their pride doesn’t starve.
Violet: The mane of a male Pyroar heats up to over 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit during battle. Merely approaching it will cause severe burns.

Flabébé (Red Flower)
Scarlet: This Pokémon can draw forth the power hidden within blooming wild flowers. It is particularly fond of red flowers.
Violet: This Flabébé rides a red flower. Immediately after birth, this Pokémon begins flying around in search of a flower it likes.

Flabébé (Yellow Flower)
Scarlet: This Flabébé rides a yellow flower. The Pokémon is defenseless and vulnerable before it has found and received power from a flower.
Violet: It unleashes a variety of moves by drawing forth the power hidden within flowers. This Pokémon is particularly fond of yellow flowers.

Flabébé (Orange Flower)
Scarlet: This Flabébé rides an orange flower. On its head, it wears a crown of pollen that has healing properties.
Violet: It receives strength from flowers and gives them some of its energy in return. This Pokémon likes orange flowers best of all.

Flabébé (Blue Flower)
Scarlet: Once it finds a flower it likes, this Pokémon will spend the rest of its life taking care of its flower. This Flabébé rides a blue flower.
Violet: This Pokémon likes blue flowers best of all. It floats upward using the power emanating from its flower and bobs along lightly through the air.

Flabébé (White Flower)
Scarlet: This Flabébé rides a white flower. The wind blows this Pokémon around as it drifts in search of flower gardens.
Violet: When evening falls, it searches out a place blooming with flowers of the same white color as itself, and then it goes to sleep.

Floette (Red Flower)
Scarlet: This Pokémon draws forth what power is left in withered flowers to make them healthy again. It holds a red flower.
Violet: This Pokémon uses red wavelengths of light to pour its own energy into flowers and draw forth their latent potential.

Floette (Yellow Flower)
Scarlet: This Pokémon can draw forth the power hidden within yellow flowers. This power then becomes the moves Floette uses to protect itself.
Violet: Floette can draw forth the latent capabilities of Grass-type Pokémon. It syncs with yellow flowers.

Floette (Orange Flower)
Scarlet: This Pokémon can draw forth the most power when in sync with orange flowers, compared to flowers of other colors.
Violet: This Pokémon cannot use moves on its own. When it syncs with flowers, it becomes able to use Grass-type moves.

Floette (Blue Flower)
Scarlet: Whenever this Pokémon finds flowering plants that are withering, it will bring them back to its territory and care for them until they are healthy.
Violet: It exchanges power with flowers via wavelengths of visible light. This form of Floette can sync with the wavelength that produces the color blue.

Floette (White Flower)
Scarlet: Floette that are fond of white flowers can also easily sync with flowers of other colors.
Violet: If it finds someone messing up a flower bed, it will attack them without mercy. This Floette takes particularly good care of white flowers.

Florges (Red Flower)
Scarlet: This Pokémon creates an impressive flower garden in its territory. It draws forth the power of the red flowers around its neck.
Violet: They say that flower gardens created by Florges are constantly showered with a power that can heal both body and spirit.

Florges (Yellow Flower)
Scarlet: It is said that there was once a Florges that protected the garden of a castle for over 300 years.
Violet: This Pokémon battles by drawing forth the power of yellow flowers. It ruthlessly punishes anyone who tramples on flowering plants.

Florges (Orange Flower)
Scarlet: Its orange flowers fire off powerful beams, attacking as if they were a battery of artillery.
Violet: In times long past, castle governors would lovingly raise Florges to care for their castles’ exquisite gardens.

Florges (Blue Flower)
Scarlet: Though usually compassionate, Florges will hunt down anyone who vandalizes its flower garden, showing no mercy even if they beg for their lives.
Violet: Blue pigments were tremendously expensive in the past, so paintings of blue Florges are highly valuable.

Florges (White Flower)
Scarlet: A flower garden made by a white-flowered Florges will be beautifully decorated with flowering plants of many different colors.
Violet: A Florges adorned with white flowers can sync with the wavelengths of various colors to draw forth their power.

Skiddo
Scarlet: Until recently, people living in the mountains would ride on the backs of these Pokémon to traverse the mountain paths.
Violet: As long as it has sunlight and water, Skiddo can make energy with the leaves on its body, allowing it to live on rocky mountains barren of food.

Gogoat
Scarlet: It can sense the feelings of others by touching them with its horns. This species has assisted people with their work since 5,000 years ago.
Violet: These Pokémon live in herds in mountainous places. The victor in their contests of clashing horns will become the leader of the herd.

Espurr
Scarlet: It keeps its ears covered to prevent the intense psychic power in its body from escaping, but it falls unconscious if this power builds too much.
Violet: Behind an Espurr’s expressionless face is a frantic struggle to contain psychic power.

Meowstic (Male)
Scarlet: Though it has enough psychic power to blast away any opponent, Meowstic prefers to support its allies rather than attack.
Violet: If Meowstic continuously emits its powerful psychic energy, it will damage its own body.

Meowstic (Female)
Scarlet: Female Meowstic are more aggressive than males. Their expression remains blank even while they’re wielding immense psychic power.
Violet: When they sense danger, they exert their psychic power at its maximum output. They have no regard for their opponents.

Inkay
Scarlet: It protects itself from tough foes by flashing its luminescent spots to discourage them.
Violet: Being upside-down improves its blood flow and clears its mind, causing the power of its psychic moves to increase dramatically.

Malamar
Scarlet: Its hypnotic powers are dangerously strong. Anyone who falls under Malamar’s control loses their memories surrounding the event.
Violet: It flashes the luminescent spots on its body to hypnotize its opponents, gaining total control over them.

Skrelp
Scarlet: Skrelp evades its enemies by hiding amid drifting seaweed. It eats rotten seaweed to create its poison.
Violet: This Pokémon is a poor swimmer. If it’s caught in a fierce storm, it will sometimes get washed far away and become unable to return to its home.

Dragalge
Scarlet: Using a liquid poison, Dragalge indiscriminately attacks anything that wanders into its territory. This poison can corrode the undersides of boats.
Violet: Since Finizen is the better swimmer, Dragalge will approach it under the cover of seaweed, then immobilize it with a poisonous attack.

Clauncher
Scarlet: This Pokémon launches water by detonating gas inside its right claw. It snipes flying Pokémon.
Violet: Clauncher’s claws will regrow if they fall off. The meat inside the claws is edible, but it has a distinct flavor that doesn’t appeal to all tastes.

Clawitzer
Scarlet: Clawitzer can move through the water at a speed of 60 knots by using gas inside its body to expel water from the back of its claw.
Violet: The cannonballs of seawater that Clawitzer launches from its claw are powerful enough to punch through tanker hulls.

Sylveon
Scarlet: This Pokémon uses its ribbonlike feelers to send a soothing aura into its opponents, erasing their hostility.
Violet: Sylveon cuts an elegant figure as it dances lightly around, feelers fluttering, but its piercing moves aim straight for its opponents’ weak spots.

Hawlucha
Scarlet: Its elegant finishing moves—performed by nimbly leaping around using its wings—are polished in the forest where it was born and raised.
Violet: Hawlucha live quietly without flocking together. They fight constantly with their natural enemies: noisy groups of Primeape.

Dedenne
Scarlet: It’s small and its electricity-generating organ is not fully developed, so it uses its tail to absorb electricity from people’s homes and charge itself.
Violet: Dedenne emit electrical waves from the whiskers on their cheeks to communicate with each other. When low on electricity, they curl up and sleep.

Carbink
Scarlet: It has slept underground for hundreds of millions of years since its birth. It’s occasionally found during the excavation of caves.
Violet: Born from the high temperatures and pressures deep underground, it defends itself by firing beams from the jewel part of its body.

Goomy
Scarlet: Most of a Goomy’s body is water. A membrane covers the whole Pokémon to prevent it from shriveling up in dry weather.
Violet: Goomy’s horns are excellent sensory organs that cover all five of Goomy’s senses. Goomy picks up on danger from the movement of the air.

Sliggoo
Scarlet: The swirly protrusion on its back is filled with all its vital organs, such as its brain and heart.
Violet: When Sliggoo senses danger, the mucus coating its entire body becomes more concentrated— it’ll dissolve anything.

Goodra
Scarlet: It loves the rain. This mellow Pokémon can be seen walking around on the plains and in the mountains on rainy days.
Violet: This Pokémon is uncontrollable when enraged. It rampages on and on, lashing its tail with enough power to send a dump truck flying.

Klefki
Scarlet: Once it absorbs a key’s metal ions, it discards the key without a second thought. However, it will hang on to keys it favors for decades.
Violet: In the past, noble families entrusted their vault keys to a Klefki. They passed the Klefki down through the generations, taking good care of it.

Phantump
Scarlet: Legend tells that its green leaves can cure any illness. When plucked, however, the leaves will instantly wither away.
Violet: This Pokémon came to be when the spirit of a deceased child possessed a tree stump. It now wanders the forest searching for friends.

Trevenant
Scarlet: Using its roots, Trevenant connects itself to trees and monitors every corner of its forest. It uses curses to drive intruders away.
Violet: Trevenant is very kind to Pokémon living in the forest. It doesn’t even care if these Pokémon take up residence in the greenery on its head.

Bergmite
Scarlet: They live in mountainous regions of frigid cold. On rare occasions, they ride on the back of an Avalugg to cross seas and move to new habitats.
Violet: Bergmite protects itself by coating its body in ice formed by frigid air of −148 degrees Fahrenheit. It fights with Frigibax whenever they meet.

Avalugg
Scarlet: As Avalugg walks along with Bergmite on its back, it comes across pods of Cetitan. It lets them pass to avoid conflict.
Violet: This Pokémon uses its massive icy body to flatten anything that gets in its way. When it’s floating out on the ocean, it looks exactly like drift ice.

Noibat
Scarlet: This Pokémon emits ultrasonic waves from its large ears to search for fruit to eat. It mistakes Applin for its food.
Violet: Noibat can change the frequency of its sound waves at will, and it generates ultrasonic waves of up to 200,000 hertz.

Noivern
Scarlet: Ultrasonic waves emitted by a Noivern can pulverize a large boulder. This Pokémon has a cruel disposition.
Violet: In the dark, even Hydreigon are terrified of this Pokémon. But in the light, Noivern is the one that avoids battle.

Rowlet
Scarlet: Silently it glides, streaking toward its targets to get close to them. Before they even notice it, it begins to pelt them with vicious kicks.
Violet: It feels relaxed in tight, dark places and has been known to nestle into its Trainer’s bag or the front of their jacket.

Dartrix
Scarlet: This narcissistic Pokémon is a clean freak. If you don’t groom it diligently, it may stop listening to you.
Violet: It throws sharp feathers called blade quills at enemies or prey. It seldom misses.

Decidueye
Scarlet: It cunningly conceals arrow quills in its wings. It launches these quills with such precision that they can pierce a pebble at over a hundred yards.
Violet: It nocks its arrow quills and looses them at opponents. When it needs to hit, it pulls the vines on its hood to narrow its view and focus.

Litten
Scarlet: If you try too hard to get close to it, it won’t open up to you. Even if you do grow close, giving it too much affection is still a no-no.
Violet: While grooming itself, it builds up fur inside its stomach. It sets the fur alight and spews fiery attacks, which change based on how it coughs.

Torracat
Scarlet: At its throat, it bears a bell of fire. The bell rings brightly whenever fire spews out.
Violet: Torracat will let its Trainer coddle it once they’ve grown close, but it’s a powerful, sharp-clawed Pokémon, so its Trainer gets covered in scratches.

Incineroar
Scarlet: When its fighting spirit is set alight, the flames around its waist become especially intense.
Violet: After hurling ferocious punches and flinging furious kicks, it finishes opponents off by spewing fire from around its navel.

Popplio
Scarlet: This Pokémon can control balloons made of water. It practices diligently so it can learn to make big balloons.
Violet: The balloons it inflates with its nose grow larger and larger as it practices day by day.

Brionne
Scarlet: A skillful dancer, it creates a sequence of water balloons as it dances, then briskly bombards its enemies.
Violet: It cares deeply for its companions. When its Trainer is feeling down, it performs a cheery dance to try to help.

Primarina
Scarlet: To Primarina, every battle is a stage. It takes down its prey with beautiful singing and dancing.
Violet: Also known as a songstress, it is a sight to behold on moonlit nights when it sings in front of the colony it leads.

Pikipek
Scarlet: Using its beak to strike 16 times per second, it opens holes in even the hardest of trees.
Violet: Pikipek has strong muscles in its neck, so it won’t hurt itself even if it violently shakes its head.

Trumbeak
Scarlet: It flies around using a hundred different cries in various ways to declare its territory to others.
Violet: When it encounters foes, it launches the many seeds stored in its beak in a radial burst.

Toucannon
Scarlet: The compressed gas in Toucannon’s beak launches seeds with such force that they can shatter large boulders.
Violet: Pairs of Toucannon are considered symbols of companionship, as these Pokémon will raise the temperature of their beaks to warm each other.

Yungoos
Scarlet: Its stomach fills most of its torso. It wanders the same path every day, searching for fresh food.
Violet: It spends its waking hours searching endlessly for food. When Yungoos is hungry, its ferocity gains a certain edge.

Gumshoos
Scarlet: Once it finds signs of prey, it will patiently stake out the location, waiting until the sun goes down.
Violet: Gumshoos specializes in relentlessly tracking down prey. The simple-minded Skwovet doesn’t seem to provide Gumshoos enough challenge.

Grubbin
Scarlet: Grubbin normally live underground, but if they get unearthed by Hoothoot, they may be found gathered around electric Pokémon.
Violet: It spits sticky threads and winds them around branches, then swings nimbly from tree to tree in a pendulum-like motion.

Charjabug
Scarlet: Protected by a sturdy shell, Charjabug eats large quantities of fresh and decomposing leaf litter in order to evolve.
Violet: As it digests fallen leaves, it generates and stores electricity, which it can discharge from the tips of its jaws.

Vikavolt
Scarlet: Displaying exceptional mobility, it weaves between trees and shoots down bird Pokémon with its electromagnetic beams.
Violet: When carrying a Charjabug, Vikavolt can receive electricity from it and then rapidly fire powerful electromagnetic beams from its large jaws.

Crabrawler
Scarlet: This Pokémon punches trees and eats the berries that drop down, training itself and getting food at the same time.
Violet: If it loses its pincers, they’ll quickly regrow. The pincers are popular ingredients in paella since their shells produce a tasty soup stock.

Crabominable
Scarlet: The detached pincers of these Pokémon are delicious. Some Trainers bring Lechonk into the mountains just to search for them.
Violet: Though its punches are powerful, this Pokémon’s movements are sluggish. It blows icy bubbles from its mouth to immobilize its opponents.

Oricorio (Baile Style)
Scarlet: This Pokémon is incredibly popular, possibly because its passionate dancing is a great match with the temperament of Paldean people.
Violet: This form of Oricorio has sipped red nectar. It whips up blazing flames as it moves to the steps of its passionate dance.

Oricorio (Pom-Pom Style)
Scarlet: This form of Oricorio has sipped yellow nectar. It uses nimble steps to approach opponents, then knocks them out with electric punches.
Violet: The energetic, cheerful dance of these Oricorio is popular with children, but the Oricorio themselves are hard to find in Paldea.

Oricorio (Pa'u Style)
Scarlet: The airy dance of these Oricorio is popular as a means of maintaining good health, but the Oricorio themselves are hard to find in Paldea.
Violet: This form of Oricorio has sipped pink nectar. It elevates its mind with the gentle steps of its dance, then unleashes its psychic energy.

Oricorio (Sensu Style)
Scarlet: This form of Oricorio has sipped purple nectar. It uses ethereal dance steps to call forth the spirits of the dead.
Violet: The elegant, attractive dance of these Oricorio is popular with adults, but the Oricorio themselves are hard to find in Paldea.

Cutiefly
Scarlet: When it senses the auras of people or Pokémon who are having fun, it will draw close and give them a painful poke with its long proboscis.
Violet: Cutiefly sucks up pollen and nectar with its long proboscis. It stores any pollen it doesn’t finish eating in its fur.

Ribombee
Scarlet: Ribombee can sense when people or Pokémon are feeling down, and it will cheer them up with handmade pollen puffs.
Violet: Pollen puffs created by skilled Ribombee can relieve fatigue, making the puffs a popular commodity.

Rockruff
Scarlet: This Pokémon is very friendly when it’s young. Its disposition becomes vicious once it matures, but it never forgets the kindness of its master.
Violet: This Pokémon travels in a pack with others until it grows up. When its mood turns sour, it starts striking the ground with the rocks on its neck.

Lycanroc (Midday Form)
Scarlet: Lycanroc attacks its prey with its sharp claws and fangs. It loyally obeys the instructions of a Trainer it trusts.
Violet: It has a calm and collected demeanor. It swiftly closes in on its prey, then slices them with the rocks in its mane.

Lycanroc (Midnight Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon uses its rocky mane to slash any who approach. It will even disobey its Trainer if it dislikes the orders it was given.
Violet: This Lycanroc has an extremely vicious temperament. It will happily sustain injuries for the sake of taking down its opponent.

Lycanroc (Dusk Form)
Scarlet: Normally this Pokémon doesn’t even bark, but once it enters battle, it will relentlessly drive the opponent into a corner.
Violet: These Pokémon have both calm and ferocious qualities. It’s said that this form of Lycanroc is the most troublesome to raise.

Mareanie
Scarlet: This Pokémon wanders the seaside looking for food. It often gets electric shocks from broken Pincurchin spines that it tries to eat.
Violet: It has excellent regenerative capabilities. Legs that a Mareanie has lost have a very bitter, astringent flavor—they’re not suitable as food.

Toxapex
Scarlet: This Pokémon lives within a dome made by its own legs. Toxapex monitors its surroundings by sensing the flow of the tide through its spikes.
Violet: Toxapex gets into fierce battles with Bruxish over areas where warm ocean currents flow, but the odds are always against it.

Mudbray
Scarlet: This Pokémon covers itself in mud that it has regurgitated. The mud won’t dry out even if it’s exposed to the sun for a long time.
Violet: Though a slow walker, Mudbray is plenty strong. Its pace doesn’t change even when it’s loaded with 50 times its own body weight.

Mudsdale
Scarlet: This Pokémon has been treasured not just for its physical labor but also because it produces high-quality mud used for making pottery.
Violet: Its legs are fortified with mud and harder than stone, and they can reduce a large truck to scrap with one kick.

Dewpider
Scarlet: Dewpider uses sticky threads to create the water bubble that covers its head, so the bubble very rarely bursts.
Violet: It supports the water bubble that envelops its head with three of its legs. Sometimes it secretly swaps which legs are holding up the bubble.

Araquanid
Scarlet: A caring Pokémon, Araquanid carries Dewpider around inside its water bubble to protect them as it walks. It protects its food in its bubble too.
Violet: It launches sticky water bubbles. Foes who lose consciousness while trapped inside these bubbles will get torn apart by Araquanid’s gnashing jaws.

Fomantis
Scarlet: Fomantis hates having its naps interrupted. It fires off beams using energy it gathers by bathing in the sun.
Violet: Many Trainers give their Fomantis their own flowerpots so they can sunbathe in peace and quiet.

Lurantis
Scarlet: By masquerading as a bug Pokémon, it lowers the guard of actual bug Pokémon lured in by a scent of sweet flowers. Its sickles bring them down.
Violet: A lot of time and effort is required to maintain the vivid colors of its petals. This Pokémon puts its Trainer’s attentiveness to the test.

Salandit
Scarlet: It taunts its prey and lures them into narrow, rocky areas where it then sprays them with toxic gas to make them dizzy and take them down.
Violet: Only female Salandit can produce gas laden with pheromones. Males entranced by this gas will do whatever the females tell them.

Salazzle
Scarlet: Salazzle makes its opponents light-headed with poisonous gas, then captivates them with alluring movements to turn them into loyal servants.
Violet: When two Salazzle meet, they will use their pheromone gas to fight over the males in each other’s group.

Bounsweet
Scarlet: Its sweat is sweet, like syrup made from boiled-down fruit. Because of this, Bounsweet was highly valued in the past, when sweeteners were scarce.
Violet: A Greedent drawn in by the sweet scent of these Pokémon will tuck the Bounsweet in among the berries in its tail and carry them all away.

Steenee
Scarlet: Steenee spreads a sweet scent that makes others feel invigorated. This same scent is popular for antiperspirants.
Violet: Steenee bounces energetically through forests. If the rind that peels off its body is pulverized, it can be used to treat stomach pains.

Tsareena
Scarlet: This Pokémon is proud and aggressive. However, it is said that a Tsareena will instantly become calm if someone touches the crown on its calyx.
Violet: This Pokémon launches fierce yet elegant kicks with its long, slender legs. It views Quaquaval as its rival.

Comfey
Scarlet: It uses its vine to pick flowers. The flowers that Comfey attaches to itself develop healing properties.
Violet: It prefers areas with lots of flowers. A Comfey adorned with flowers is a happy Comfey, and the flowers gain healing effects.

Oranguru
Scarlet: People used to mistake Oranguru for a human when they saw it issue command after command to the other Pokémon of the forest.
Violet: This Pokémon lives quietly in the depths of the forest. The purple, cape-like fur gets longer and longer as Oranguru ages.

Passimian
Scarlet: This Pokémon battles by throwing hard berries. It won’t obey a Trainer who throws Poké Balls without skill.
Violet: The boss chooses 10 members of the group to go out hunting. The hunting party will evenly split the food they find with the rest of the group.

Sandygast
Scarlet: If it loses its shovel, it will stick something else— like a branch—in its head to make do until it finds another shovel.
Violet: It flings sand into the eyes of its prey and tries to close in on them while they’re blinded, but since Sandygast is so slow, the prey tends to escape.

Palossand
Scarlet: The terrifying Palossand drags smaller Pokémon into its sandy body. Once its victims are trapped, it drains them of their vitality whenever it pleases.
Violet: From the hollows in its arms, it fires the bones of its victims, which are all dried up after being drained of their vitality.

Minior (Meteor Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon is born in the ozone layer. It falls to the ground once the outer shell enclosing its core grows heavy.
Violet: It will react when touched or called to, but it’s unknown whether such responses indicate consciousness.

Minior (All Cores)
Scarlet: Minior that fall to the ground try to return to space, but their wish will not come true—all they can do is fade away.
Violet: It feeds on dust in the atmosphere. The color of its core is said to be determined by the composition of the dust it eats.

Komala
Scarlet: Komala spends its entire life sleeping. It feeds on leaves that contain a potent poison only Komala can break down.
Violet: A potent anesthetic can be made by diluting Komala’s drool. This anesthetic was used for surgeries in the past.

Mimikyu (Disguised Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon lives in dark places untouched by sunlight. When it appears before humans, it hides itself under a cloth that resembles a Pikachu.
Violet: Mimikyu was only recently identified as a Pokémon. Previously, people thought it was just a ghost wearing a cloth.

Mimikyu (Busted Form)
Scarlet: Even as it struggles beneath the cloth to repair the broken neck of its disguise, Mimikyu keeps up its impersonation of Pikachu.
Violet: It has taken damage and can no longer hold the head of its cloth disguise upright. For as long as it lives, Mimikyu will never forget its attacker.

Bruxish
Scarlet: It grinds its teeth with great force to stimulate its brain. It fires the psychic energy created by this process from the protuberance on its head.
Violet: When sunlight reflects on the ripples created by a Bruxish grinding its teeth, the water all around sparkles brilliantly.

Jangmo-o
Scarlet: The scale atop its head is useful for both offense and defense. It bravely stands and faces its foes rather than turning tail, even if its foes are strong.
Violet: They communicate with their allies using the sounds their scales make when struck. A group of these Pokémon causes quite a racket.

Hakamo-o
Scarlet: It gets into fistfights so intense that the scales on its arms peel off. Bare arms are a sign of valiance.
Violet: It fires itself up by striking its scales with force as it dances. Its roar is a battle cry.

Kommo-o
Scarlet: It lets its arm hang, and then—quick as a flash— swings upward to land its specialty punch and send the opponent flying high into the sky.
Violet: It bashes its scales to test its opponents’ mettle. The sound of struck Kommo-o scales frightens weaker foes and sends them running.

Grookey
Scarlet: The stick Grookey holds has grown harder and more flexible after soaking in the energy that emanates from inside Grookey’s body.
Violet: As Grookey strikes everything in sight with its stick, it has more and more fun, and its rhythm becomes livelier.

Thwackey
Scarlet: It skillfully uses its two sticks not only for drumming out rapid beats but also for pummeling opponents during battle.
Violet: It becomes intensely focused while it drums out vigorous beats—so much so that sometimes it won’t listen to its Trainer’s commands.

Rillaboom
Scarlet: Though it has a calm disposition, it won’t tolerate those who drum up discord. It strictly disciplines offenders until they learn their lesson.
Violet: When one Rillaboom challenges another who leads a troop, a drumming battle commences. The victor becomes the troop’s new boss.

Scorbunny
Scarlet: Once its body has heated up, Scorbunny can use the full extent of its power. That’s why it does warm-up exercises.
Violet: Fire energy gathers in the pads of its feet, raising their temperature. Once hot, Scorbunny’s footpads can deal heavy damage to opponents.

Raboot
Scarlet: Thanks to its soft and fluffy fur, Raboot can easily heat up its fire energy and produce flames with more power.
Violet: While it prides itself on its varied kicking moves, it can also deliver powerful headbutts once its flames have heated up its forehead.

Cinderace
Scarlet: Although Cinderace loses its cool easily, it will battle flawlessly for a Trainer it trusts.
Violet: Using a ball that it made out of flames, Cinderace blinds its opponents and keeps them at bay.

Sobble
Scarlet: It gets berries to eat by shooting them down with bullets of water it spurts from its mouth. Its aim is perfect.
Violet: It’s a very cautious Pokémon. When it has no choice but to battle, it hides itself before attacking.

Drizzile
Scarlet: It extends its long, slimy tongue at blinding speeds and finishes off its prey with great skill.
Violet: Highly intelligent but also very lazy, it defends its home by laying traps.

Inteleon
Scarlet: It uses special lenses in its eyes to sense things about its opponents—like their body heat—then attacks once it identifies a weak spot.
Violet: It may present itself as being well-mannered, but deep down, it still has a lazy side. It will slack off when its Trainer isn’t looking.

Skwovet
Scarlet: It stores berries in its cheeks. When there are no berries to be found, Skwovet will stuff pebbles into its cheeks to stave off its cravings.
Violet: No matter how much it stuffs its belly with food, it is always anxious about getting hungry again. So, it stashes berries in its cheeks and tail.

Greedent
Scarlet: If it spots a berry tree, it will immediately go to gather berries without a sideways glance—even if it’s in the middle of a battle.
Violet: This Pokémon makes off with heaps of fallen berries by wrapping them in its tail, which is roughly twice the length of its body.

Rookidee
Scarlet: This Pokémon is brave and reckless. The white markings around a Rookidee’s eyes intimidate fainthearted Pokémon.
Violet: The females are fussier than the males. If another creature dirties a female Rookidee’s wings, it’ll peck the offender relentlessly in a burning rage.

Corvisquire
Scarlet: It’s said that the reason behind Corvisquire’s high level of intelligence is the large size of its brain relative to those of other bird Pokémon.
Violet: This intelligent Pokémon will quickly learn how to use any tool it can hold in its beak or its talons.

Corviknight
Scarlet: Corviknight can’t serve as a taxi service in Paldea because the Pokémon’s natural predators will attack it while it flies, endangering the customer.
Violet: Although its wings have partly turned to steel and become heavy as a result, this Pokémon flies through the skies with ease.

Chewtle
Scarlet: Its large front tooth is still growing in. When the tooth itches, this Pokémon will bite another Chewtle’s horn, and the two Pokémon will tussle.
Violet: A popular game among children is to lift up sticks that Chewtle have bitten onto to see whose Chewtle can hang on the longest.

Drednaw
Scarlet: Its massive, jagged teeth can crush a boulder in a single bite. This Pokémon has an extremely vicious disposition.
Violet: Drednaw lurks along the shoreline. When prey come to drink water, Drednaw stretches its neck out and chomps down on them.

Rolycoly
Scarlet: On sunny days, Rolycoly will come out onto grassy plains and roll around. Then it will eat the grass that gets tangled in its wheel-like leg.
Violet: Chunks of the surface of this Pokémon’s body that have grown old and flaked off have long been used for fuel as an alternative to coal.

Carkol
Scarlet: The temperature inside its body increases when it experiences strong emotions. It rolls around frantically while spewing flames.
Violet: Due to the coal tar created inside it, the heap of coal on Carkol’s back never falls apart, even when the Pokémon rolls around at high speeds.

Coalossal
Scarlet: To intimidate its opponents, Coalossal will vigorously shake its body, scattering coal from its smoldering back.
Violet: It’s gentle usually but fearsome when angered. With a body that burns at over 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit, it crushes foes and turns them to ash.

Applin
Scarlet: It grows by eating the flesh of an apple. Applin uses its own body fluid to strengthen the apple’s skin and prevent it from rotting.
Violet: Applin lives inside an apple. When an Applin is separated from its apple, its body loses moisture and the Pokémon grows weak.

Flapple
Scarlet: It flutters around while seeking an opening in the opponent’s guard, then attacks by spitting acidic liquid strong enough to melt metal.
Violet: It uses its own body fluid to repair its apple. Strong Flapple that have won many battles have apples that are clay colored all over.

Appletun
Scarlet: It feeds mainly on sweet apples. It will also eat small bug Pokémon that are attracted by its sweet nectar.
Violet: When some Lechonk come along to lick the sweet nectar on Appletun’s back, Appletun will spew sticky nectar at them to drive them away.

Silicobra
Scarlet: Silicobra’s neck pouch, which can inflate and deflate like a balloon, gets more elastic each time Silicobra sheds its skin.
Violet: Silicobra’s large nostrils are specialized for spraying sand, so this Pokémon is not very good at telling apart different smells.

Sandaconda
Scarlet: It will expand its body as much as it can and then contract itself, blasting out sand with enough force to wash away a dump truck.
Violet: The sand it spews contains sharp, pointy gravel, which is actually just sand that Sandaconda’s saliva has hardened into irregular shapes.

Cramorant
Scarlet: Cramorant instinctively swallow everything whole. They’re at their most formidable when they’re struggling to swallow overly large prey.
Violet: It’s an incredibly poor learner because it uses the bare minimum amount of energy for its brain. It focuses on battling instead.

Cramorant (Gulping Form)
Scarlet: Cramorant is constantly on the hunt for food along riverbanks. It loves Arrokuda—when it finds them, it swallows them whole without a thought.
Violet: Cramorant takes advantage of Arrokuda’s frantic thrashing to help spit Arrokuda out at high speed.

Cramorant (Gorging Form)
Scarlet: Its throat is clearly not wide enough to swallow a Pikachu, and yet Cramorant makes no move to release its catch.
Violet: With a Pikachu stuck in its throat, Cramorant can use Pikachu’s prickling electricity to give its opponents a shock.

Arrokuda
Scarlet: Arrokuda can swim quickly only in a straight line. The ones that become sluggish from overeating are the first to be targeted by flocks of Wattrel.
Violet: It takes down prey by charging into them with its hard, pointed jaw. But Arrokuda’s eyesight is poor, so this tactic has a low success rate.

Barraskewda
Scarlet: It spins its tail fins to leap from the water, then viciously bites down on Wingull flying close to the water’s surface.
Violet: It swims at speeds of over 100 knots and battles fiercely with pods of Finizen over prey.

Toxel
Scarlet: It has no problem drinking dirty water. An organ inside Toxel’s body filters such water into a poisonous liquid that is harmless to Toxel.
Violet: This selfish, attention-seeking Pokémon stores poison and electricity in two different sacs inside its body.

Toxtricity (Amped Form)
Scarlet: As it scatters toxic sweat and emits electricity, a melody that sounds like it came from a guitar reverberates through the surrounding area.
Violet: The jolts of electricity it launches by violently strumming the protrusions on its chest easily exceed 15,000 volts.

Toxtricity (Low Key Form)
Scarlet: Many youths admire the way this Pokémon listlessly picks fights and keeps its cool no matter what opponent it faces.
Violet: As it gulps down stagnant water and generates electricity in its body, a sound like a rhythm played by a bass guitar reverberates all around.

Sinistea (Phony Form)
Scarlet: The soul of someone who died alone possessed some leftover tea. This Pokémon appears in hotels and houses.
Violet: Sinistea gets into your body when you drink it, and then it steals your vitality from within. It also tastes awful.

Sinistea (Antique Form)
Scarlet: Some fanatics will go to great pains to prepare the perfect tea and teacup, eagerly waiting for a Sinistea to come and possess their selections.
Violet: This Sinistea lives in an antique teacup. As valuable as this Pokémon is, its awful taste remains unchanged.

Polteageist (Phony Form)
Scarlet: The tea that composes Polteageist’s body has a distinct and enjoyable flavor. Drinking too much, however, can be fatal.
Violet: These Pokémon multiply by creeping into teapots and pouring themselves into leftover tea.

Polteageist (Antique Form)
Scarlet: Apparently a Polteageist’s disposition is affected by the type of tea the Pokémon came from. What teapot it inhabits makes no difference.
Violet: Though risky to drink, this Pokémon’s tea tastes delicious. Gourmets who have no fear of danger drink Polteageist tea day after day.

Hatenna
Scarlet: Because the emotions of others constantly flow into its head, this Pokémon prefers environments where no other creatures live.
Violet: It senses the feelings of other living creatures. Be careful not to expose it to strong emotions for too long, or it will end up exhausted.

Hattrem
Scarlet: To this Pokémon, strong emotions apparently feel like incredibly loud noises—even if the emotions are happy ones.
Violet: The moment this Pokémon finds someone who’s emitting strong emotions, it will pummel them senseless with its braids to silence them.

Hatterene
Scarlet: Hatterene knocks out those that intrude in its home forest by blasting them with a beam, then slashing with claws enhanced by psychic power.
Violet: Beware of forests that show no signs of living creatures within. You may have wandered into Hatterene’s territory.

Impidimp
Scarlet: The reason this Pokémon causes trouble for those it feels close to is because Impidimp itself gets irritable if it can’t absorb negative emotions.
Violet: They live in groups, pestering and playing pranks on each other to polish their troublemaking skills.

Morgrem
Scarlet: Morgrem prefers dirty tactics, like ambushing, because it doesn’t have confidence in its brawn.
Violet: This Pokémon absorbs negative emotions and turns them into energy. It’s popular with people who tend to think gloomy thoughts.

Grimmsnarl
Scarlet: This Pokémon has complete control over its hair. Grimmsnarl normally keeps its hair wrapped around its body to support its muscles.
Violet: It lives deep within the forest. Even after evolving into this splendid form, it hasn’t given up on its petty misdeeds and pranks.

Milcery
Scarlet: The more sweet aromas it absorbs, the more its body swells. Milcery will deflate when its energy level drops.
Violet: When attacked, it tackles its foe and covers them in cream. With its foe either blinded or astonished by deliciousness, Milcery flees.

Alcremie (Vanilla Cream)
Scarlet: Desserts that Alcremie have decorated with their cream have a rich, sweet flavor and bring happiness to all who eat them.
Violet: Alcremie that have been cherished produce exquisite cream, so Trainers always raise them lovingly.

Alcremie (Ruby Cream)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a sweet and tart flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with sweet and tart flavors.

Alcremie (Matcha Cream)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it an aromatic flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with an aromatic flavor.

Alcremie (Mint Cream)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a refreshing flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with a refreshing flavor.

Alcremie (Lemon Cream)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a sour flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with a sour flavor.

Alcremie (Salted Cream)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a salty flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with a salty flavor.

Alcremie (Ruby Swirl)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a mixed flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with a mix of flavors.

Alcremie (Caramel Swirl)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a bitter flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with a bitter flavor.

Alcremie (Rainbow Swirl)
Scarlet: Slight vibrations shook its cells when it evolved, giving it a complex flavor.
Violet: When attacked, it strikes back by throwing cream accented with complex flavors.

Falinks
Scarlet: The brass, which is the one that stands at the front and issues orders, is the strongest and smartest of the six.
Violet: The leader, known as the brass, uses its extendible horn to issue orders to the others when it’s time to change formation.

Pincurchin
Scarlet: This Pokémon generates electricity when it digests food. It uses its five hard teeth to scrape seaweed off surfaces and eat it.
Violet: This Pokémon is so timid that even brushing against seaweed will make it discharge electricity in surprise. Its lips do not conduct electricity.

Snom
Scarlet: It eats snow that has accumulated on the ground. It prefers soft, freshly fallen snow, so it will eat its way up a mountain, aiming for the peak.
Violet: Within its internal organs, Snom amplifies the frigid air it gets from eating snow and then uses this amplified air to create icicle-like spikes.

Frosmoth
Scarlet: Frosmoth senses air currents with its antennae. It sends its scales drifting on frigid air, making them fall like snow.
Violet: It causes blizzards as it flies around with its huge, chill-emanating wings. Clean meltwater is its favorite thing to drink.

Stonjourner
Scarlet: The elemental composition of the rocks that form its body were found to match the bedrock of a land far away from this Pokémon’s habitat.
Violet: This Pokémon spends its life gazing at the setting sun. It strides leisurely across grassy plains on legs of rock that weigh over 400 pounds each.

Eiscue (Ice Face)
Scarlet: On hot days, these Pokémon press their ice cube heads together and pass the time cooling each other down.
Violet: If you lick the ice covering its face, you’ll find it has a faintly salty taste. This species rode here on ocean currents from a cold, faraway land.

Eiscue (Noice Face)
Scarlet: The ice that was covering this Eiscue’s face has shattered. Eiscue emits cold air from the tip of its hair to protect its head, which is sensitive to heat.
Violet: Contrary to its looks, Eiscue is a poor swimmer. It creates ice balls at the tip of its single hair to lure prey in and fish them up.

Indeedee (Male)
Scarlet: This Pokémon picks up on the positive emotions of other creatures via its horns and uses those emotions to fuel itself.
Violet: This Pokémon never leaves its Trainer’s side. It predicts their actions with its psychic power and takes care of their day-to-day needs.

Indeedee (Female)
Scarlet: It dislikes conflict. If a fight occurs in its territory, it uses psychic power to throw things at the combatants in an effort to drive them away.
Violet: In search of happy feelings—such as joy and gratitude—Indeedee bustles around, taking diligent care of people and other Pokémon.

Morpeko (Full Belly Mode)
Scarlet: Morpeko eats seeds constantly to keep its hunger at bay. If it’s hungry for too long, it grows wild and brutish.
Violet: It has a small stomach. If it isn’t constantly eating the seeds it keeps in its pockets, it will get hungry immediately.

Morpeko (Hangry Mode)
Scarlet: Even after using up all its dark energy, this violent ruffian will keep running riot until its hunger is appeased.
Violet: Hunger has disrupted this Pokémon’s hormonal balance. The Electric-type energy stored in its cheek sacs has turned into Dark-type energy.

Cufant
Scarlet: Using the pointy tip of its trunk, it carves off chunks of hard rocks to eat. It is very docile and helps people with physical labor.
Violet: Cufant can lift loads weighing five tons. In the mornings, it heads into caves with its herd, in search of the ore on which these Pokémon feed.

Copperajah
Scarlet: This Pokémon was brought to Paldea long ago by people from a faraway land. It’s so strong that it can easily pull an airplane.
Violet: Copperajah are prideful, cantankerous Pokémon. Specimens with vibrant green skin command the respect of others of their kind.

Duraludon
Scarlet: Duraludon’s body is comprised of a special metal that’s lightweight and scratch resistant. It’s also smooth, as though it was given a mirror finish.
Violet: Its metal body is durable but prone to retaining heat. It vents this heat from the slits in its tail.

Dreepy
Scarlet: In the evening, groups of Dreepy will fly at high speeds over the ocean and poke at Pokémon in the water for fun.
Violet: It has a habit of biting at Clauncher even though it doesn’t feed on them. This is said to be vestigial behavior from when Dreepy was alive.

Drakloak
Scarlet: This Pokémon flies around at over 120 miles per hour. If a Drakloak is defeated in a battle, its Dreepy will wander off without a second thought.
Violet: This Pokémon stores up energy in its lungs, then shoots it out. It takes care of Dreepy and battles alongside them until they’re all grown up.

Dragapult
Scarlet: Dragapult can make its whole body transparent by clearing its mind and focusing. Even the Dreepy in Dragapult’s horns become invisible.
Violet: The fastest Dragapult of the group is always surrounded by Dreepy that want to fly at sonic speed.

Kleavor
Scarlet: Parts of its body turned to stone when it evolved thanks to an extremely rare ore found in volcanic areas.
Violet: This Pokémon is a rough, crude, and violent sort. It swings around its large, heavy stone axes to finish off its prey.

Ursaluna (Bloodmoon)
Scarlet: It crossed the sea and drifted ashore in a new land. Surviving in this place led it to take on a unique appearance and gain special powers.
Violet: This special Ursaluna can see in the dark with its left eye and protects itself with mud that is as hard as iron.

Basculegion (Male)
Scarlet: This Pokémon is cloaked in the souls of its comrades who perished during a punishing journey to the river of their birth.
Violet: It can jump with incredible power. Parts of its body are tinged red by the rage of its fallen friends.

Basculegion (Female)
Scarlet: The souls of its comrades cloak its body and propel it effortlessly through even raging rapids.
Violet: It can afflict a target with terrifying illusions that are under its control. The deeper the sadness in its friends’ souls, the paler Basculegion becomes.

Overqwil
Scarlet: Overqwil’s poisonous spikes will reflexively react even while Overqwil sleeps, stabbing any moving thing that approaches.
Violet: It’s ferocious and has a short temper. The ends of its spikes are barbed, and they can’t be easily removed once they’ve punctured something.

Sprigatito
Scarlet: Its fluffy fur is similar in composition to plants. This Pokémon frequently washes its face to keep it from drying out.
Violet: The sweet scent its body gives off mesmerizes those around it. The scent grows stronger when this Pokémon is in the sun.

Floragato
Scarlet: Floragato deftly wields the vine hidden beneath its long fur, slamming the hard flower bud against its opponents.
Violet: The hardness of Floragato’s fur depends on the Pokémon’s mood. When Floragato is prepared to battle, its fur becomes pointed and needle sharp.

Meowscarada
Scarlet: This Pokémon uses the reflective fur lining its cape to camouflage the stem of its flower, creating the illusion that the flower is floating.
Violet: With skillful misdirection, it rigs foes with pollen-packed flower bombs. Meowscarada sets off the bombs before its foes realize what’s going on.

Fuecoco
Scarlet: It lies on warm rocks and uses the heat absorbed by its square-shaped scales to create fire energy.
Violet: Its flame sac is small, so energy is always leaking out. This energy is released from the dent atop Fuecoco’s head and flickers to and fro.

Crocalor
Scarlet: The combination of Crocalor’s fire energy and overflowing vitality has caused an egg-shaped fireball to appear on the Pokémon’s head.
Violet: The valve in Crocalor’s flame sac is closely connected to its vocal cords. This Pokémon utters a guttural cry as it spews flames every which way.

Skeledirge
Scarlet: The fiery bird changes shape when Skeledirge sings. Rumor has it that the bird was born when the fireball on Skeledirge’s head gained a soul.
Violet: Skeledirge’s gentle singing soothes the souls of all that hear it. It burns its enemies to a crisp with flames of over 5,400 degrees Fahrenheit.

Quaxly
Scarlet: This Pokémon migrated to Paldea from distant lands long ago. The gel secreted by its feathers repels water and grime.
Violet: Its strong legs let it easily swim around in even fast-flowing rivers. It likes to keep things tidy and is prone to overthinking things.

Quaxwell
Scarlet: These Pokémon constantly run through shallow waters to train their legs, then compete with each other to see which of them kicks most gracefully.
Violet: The hardworking Quaxwell observes people and Pokémon from various regions and incorporates their movements into its own dance routines.

Quaquaval
Scarlet: A single kick from a Quaquaval can send a truck rolling. This Pokémon uses its powerful legs to perform striking dances from far-off lands.
Violet: Dancing in ways that evoke far-away places, this Pokémon mesmerizes all that see it. Flourishes of its decorative water feathers slice into its foes.

Lechonk
Scarlet: It searches for food all day. It possesses a keen sense of smell but doesn’t use it for anything other than foraging.
Violet: This Pokémon spurns all but the finest of foods. Its body gives off an herblike scent that bug Pokémon detest.

Oinkologne (Male)
Scarlet: Oinkologne is proud of its fine, glossy skin. It emits a concentrated scent from the tip of its tail.
Violet: It entrances female Pokémon with the sweet, alluring scent that wafts from all over its body.

Oinkologne (Female)
Scarlet: This Pokémon sends a flowerlike scent wafting about. Well-developed muscles in its legs allow it to leap more than 16 feet with no trouble at all.
Violet: This is a meticulous Pokémon that likes to keep things tidy. It shrouds itself in a floral aroma that soothes the Pokémon around it.

Tarountula
Scarlet: The ball of threads wrapped around its body is elastic enough to deflect the scythes of Scyther, this Pokémon’s natural enemy.
Violet: The thread it secretes from its rear is as strong as wire. The secret behind the thread’s strength is the topic of ongoing research.

Spidops
Scarlet: It clings to branches and ceilings using its threads and moves without a sound. It takes out its prey before the prey even notices it.
Violet: Spidops covers its territory in tough, sticky threads to set up traps for intruders.

Nymble
Scarlet: It has its third set of legs folded up. When it’s in a tough spot, this Pokémon jumps over 30 feet using the strength of its legs.
Violet: It’s highly skilled at a fighting style in which it uses its jumping capabilities to dodge incoming attacks while also dealing damage to opponents.

Lokix
Scarlet: When it decides to fight all out, it stands on its previously folded legs to enter Showdown Mode. It neutralizes its enemies in short order.
Violet: It uses its normally folded third set of legs when in Showdown Mode. This places a huge burden on its body, so it can’t stay in this mode for long.

Pawmi
Scarlet: It has underdeveloped electric sacs on its cheeks. These sacs can produce electricity only if Pawmi rubs them furiously with the pads on its forepaws.
Violet: The pads of its paws are electricity-discharging organs. Pawmi fires electricity from its forepaws while standing unsteadily on its hind legs.

Pawmo
Scarlet: When its group is attacked, Pawmo is the first to leap into battle, defeating enemies with a fighting technique that utilizes electric shocks.
Violet: Pawmo uses a unique fighting technique in which it uses its forepaws to strike foes and zap them with electricity from its paw pads simultaneously.

Pawmot
Scarlet: This Pokémon normally is slow to react, but once it enters battle, it will strike down its enemies with lightning-fast movements.
Violet: Pawmot’s fluffy fur acts as a battery. It can store the same amount of electricity as an electric car.

Tandemaus
Scarlet: Exhibiting great teamwork, they use their incisors to cut pieces out of any material that might be useful for a nest, then make off with them.
Violet: The pair sticks together no matter what. They split any food they find exactly in half and then eat it together.

Maushold (Family of Three)
Scarlet: They build huge nests with many rooms that are used for different purposes, such as eating and sleeping.
Violet: The little one just appeared one day. They all live together like a family, but the relationship between the three is still unclear.

Maushold (Family of Four)
Scarlet: The two little ones just appeared one day. The group might be a family of related Pokémon, but nobody knows for sure.
Violet: The larger pair protects the little ones during battles. When facing strong opponents, the whole group will join the fight.

Fidough
Scarlet: This Pokémon is smooth and moist to the touch. Yeast in Fidough’s breath induces fermentation in the Pokémon’s vicinity.
Violet: The yeast in Fidough’s breath is useful for cooking, so this Pokémon has been protected by people since long ago.

Dachsbun
Scarlet: The pleasant aroma that emanates from this Pokémon’s body helps wheat grow, so Dachsbun has been treasured by farming villages.
Violet: The surface of this Pokémon’s skin hardens when exposed to intense heat, and its body has an appetizing aroma.

Smoliv
Scarlet: It protects itself from enemies by emitting oil from the fruit on its head. This oil is bitter and astringent enough to make someone flinch.
Violet: This Pokémon converts nutrients into oil, which it stores in the fruit on its head. It can easily go a whole week without eating or drinking.

Dolliv
Scarlet: Dolliv shares its tasty, fresh-scented oil with others. This species has coexisted with humans since times long gone.
Violet: It basks in the sun to its heart’s content until the fruits on its head ripen. After that, Dolliv departs from human settlements and goes on a journey.

Arboliva
Scarlet: This calm Pokémon is very compassionate. It will share its delicious, nutrient-rich oil with weakened Pokémon.
Violet: This Pokémon drives back enemies by launching its rich, aromatic oil at them with enough force to smash a boulder.

Squawkabilly (Green Plumage)
Scarlet: These Pokémon prefer to live in cities. They form flocks based on the color of their feathers, and they fight over territory.
Violet: Green-feathered flocks hold the most sway. When they’re out searching for food in the mornings and evenings, it gets very noisy.

Squawkabilly (Blue Plumage)
Scarlet: The largest of their flocks can contain more than 50 individuals. They fly around towns and forests, searching for food and making a racket.
Violet: Blue-feathered Squawkabilly view their green-feathered counterparts as rivals, since the latter make up the largest, most powerful groups.

Squawkabilly (Yellow Plumage)
Scarlet: These Squawkabilly are hotheaded, and their fighting style is vicious. They’ll leap within reach of their foes to engage in close combat.
Violet: The yellow Squawkabilly are especially fierce. They’ve even been known to drive other bird Pokémon out of town.

Squawkabilly (White Plumage)
Scarlet: This Pokémon dislikes being alone. It has a strong sense of community and survives by cooperating with allies.
Violet: Though these Squawkabilly are the fewest in number, they have no trouble living in towns since they blend in with the white buildings.

Nacli
Scarlet: It was born in a layer of rock salt deep under the earth. This species was particularly treasured in the old days, as they would share precious salt.
Violet: The ground scrapes its body as it travels, causing it to leave salt behind. Salt is constantly being created and replenished inside Nacli’s body.

Naclstack
Scarlet: This Pokémon dry cures its prey by spraying salt over them. The curing process steals away the water in the prey’s body.
Violet: It compresses rock salt inside its body and shoots out hardened salt pellets with enough force to perforate an iron sheet.

Garganacl
Scarlet: Garganacl will rub its fingertips together and sprinkle injured Pokémon with salt. Even severe wounds will promptly heal afterward.
Violet: Many Pokémon gather around Garganacl, hoping to lick at its mineral-rich salt.

Charcadet
Scarlet: Burnt charcoal came to life and became a Pokémon. Possessing a fiery fighting spirit, Charcadet will battle even tough opponents.
Violet: Its firepower increases when it fights, reaching over 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit. It likes berries that are rich in fat.

Armarouge
Scarlet: Armarouge evolved through the use of a set of armor that belonged to a distinguished warrior. This Pokémon is incredibly loyal.
Violet: This Pokémon clads itself in armor that has been fortified by psychic and fire energy, and it shoots blazing fireballs.

Ceruledge
Scarlet: The fiery blades on its arms burn fiercely with the lingering resentment of a sword wielder who fell before accomplishing their goal.
Violet: An old set of armor steeped in grudges caused this Pokémon’s evolution. Ceruledge cuts its enemies to pieces without mercy.

Tadbulb
Scarlet: Tadbulb shakes its tail to generate electricity. If it senses danger, it will make its head blink on and off to alert its allies.
Violet: It floats using the electricity stored in its body. When thunderclouds are around, Tadbulb will float higher off the ground.

Bellibolt
Scarlet: When this Pokémon expands and contracts its wobbly body, the belly-button dynamo in its stomach produces a huge amount of electricity.
Violet: What appear to be eyeballs are actually organs for discharging the electricity generated by Bellibolt’s belly-button dynamo.

Wattrel
Scarlet: When its wings catch the wind, the bones within produce electricity. This Pokémon dives into the ocean, catching prey by electrocuting them.
Violet: These Pokémon make their nests on coastal cliffs. The nests have a strange, crackling texture, and they’re a popular delicacy.

Kilowattrel
Scarlet: Kilowattrel inflates its throat sac to amplify its electricity. By riding the wind, this Pokémon can fly over 430 miles in a day.
Violet: It uses its throat sac to store electricity generated by its wings. There’s hardly any oil in its feathers, so it is a poor swimmer.

Maschiff
Scarlet: It always scowls in an attempt to make opponents take it seriously, but even crying children will burst into laughter when they see Maschiff’s face.
Violet: Its well-developed jaw and fangs are strong enough to crunch through boulders, and its thick fat makes for an excellent defense.

Mabosstiff
Scarlet: This Pokémon can store energy in its large dewlap. Mabosstiff unleashes this energy all at once to blow away enemies.
Violet: Mabosstiff loves playing with children. Though usually gentle, it takes on an intimidating look when protecting its family.

Shroodle
Scarlet: Though usually a mellow Pokémon, it will sink its sharp, poison-soaked front teeth into any that anger it, causing paralysis in the object of its ire.
Violet: To keep enemies away from its territory, it paints markings around its nest using a poisonous liquid that has an acrid odor.

Grafaiai
Scarlet: The color of the poisonous saliva depends on what the Pokémon eats. Grafaiai covers its fingers in its saliva and draws patterns on trees in forests.
Violet: Each Grafaiai paints its own individual pattern, and it will paint that same pattern over and over again throughout its life.

Bramblin
Scarlet: A soul unable to move on to the afterlife was blown around by the wind until it got tangled up with dried grass and became a Pokémon.
Violet: Not even Bramblin knows where it is headed as it tumbles across the wilderness, blown by the wind. It loathes getting wet.

Brambleghast
Scarlet: It will open the branches of its head to envelop its prey. Once it absorbs all the life energy it needs, it expels the prey and discards it.
Violet: Brambleghast wanders around arid regions. On rare occasions, mass outbreaks of these Pokémon will bury an entire town.

Toedscool
Scarlet: Toedscool lives in muggy forests. The flaps that fall from its body are chewy and very delicious.
Violet: Though it looks like Tentacool, Toedscool is a completely different species. Its legs may be thin, but it can run at a speed of 30 mph.

Toedscruel
Scarlet: These Pokémon gather into groups and form colonies deep within forests. They absolutely hate it when strangers approach.
Violet: It coils its 10 tentacles around prey and sucks out their nutrients, causing the prey pain. The folds along the rim of its head are a popular delicacy.

Klawf
Scarlet: Klawf hangs upside-down from cliffs, waiting for prey. But Klawf can’t remain in this position for long because its blood rushes to its head.
Violet: This Pokémon lives on sheer cliffs. It sidesteps opponents’ attacks, then lunges for their weak spots with its claws.

Capsakid
Scarlet: The more sunlight this Pokémon bathes in, the more spicy chemicals are produced by its body, and thus the spicier its moves become.
Violet: Traditional Paldean dishes can be extremely spicy because they include the shed front teeth of Capsakid among their ingredients.

Scovillain
Scarlet: The red head converts spicy chemicals into fire energy and blasts the surrounding area with a super spicy stream of flame.
Violet: The green head has turned vicious due to the spicy chemicals stimulating its brain. Once it goes on a rampage, there is no stopping it.

Rellor
Scarlet: This Pokémon creates a mud ball by mixing sand and dirt with psychic energy. It treasures its mud ball more than its own life.
Violet: It rolls its mud ball around while the energy it needs for evolution matures. Eventually the time comes for it to evolve.

Rabsca
Scarlet: The body that supports the ball barely moves. Therefore, it is thought that the true body of this Pokémon is actually inside the ball.
Violet: An infant sleeps inside the ball. Rabsca rolls the ball soothingly with its legs to ensure the infant sleeps comfortably.

Flittle
Scarlet: Flittle’s toes levitate about half an inch above the ground because of the psychic power emitted from the frills on the Pokémon’s belly.
Violet: It spends its time running around wastelands. If anyone steals its beloved berries, it will chase them down and exact its revenge.

Espathra
Scarlet: It immobilizes opponents by bathing them in psychic power from its large eyes. Despite its appearance, it has a vicious temperament.
Violet: It emits psychic power from the gaps between its multicolored frills and sprints at speeds greater than 120 mph.

Tinkatink
Scarlet: It swings its handmade hammer around to protect itself, but the hammer is often stolen by Pokémon that eat metal.
Violet: This Pokémon pounds iron scraps together to make a hammer. It will remake the hammer again and again until it’s satisfied with the result.

Tinkatuff
Scarlet: This Pokémon will attack groups of Pawniard and Bisharp, gathering metal from them in order to create a large and sturdy hammer.
Violet: These Pokémon make their homes in piles of scrap metal. They test the strength of each other’s hammers by smashing them together.

Tinkaton
Scarlet: This intelligent Pokémon has a very daring disposition. It knocks rocks into the sky with its hammer, aiming for flying Corviknight.
Violet: The hammer tops 220 pounds, yet it gets swung around easily by Tinkaton as it steals whatever it pleases and carries its plunder back home.

Wiglett
Scarlet: This Pokémon can pick up the scent of a Veluza just over 65 feet away and will hide itself in the sand.
Violet: Though it looks like Diglett, Wiglett is an entirely different species. The resemblance seems to be a coincidental result of environmental adaptation.

Wugtrio
Scarlet: It has a vicious temperament, contrary to what its appearance may suggest. It wraps its long bodies around prey, then drags the prey into its den.
Violet: A variety of fish Pokémon, Wugtrio was once considered to be a regional form of Dugtrio.

Bombirdier
Scarlet: It gathers things up in an apron made from shed feathers added to the Pokémon’s chest feathers, then drops those things from high places for fun.
Violet: Bombirdier uses the apron on its chest to bundle up food, which it carries back to its nest. It enjoys dropping things that make loud noises.

Finizen
Scarlet: It likes playing with others of its kind using the water ring on its tail. It uses ultrasonic waves to sense the emotions of other living creatures.
Violet: Its water ring is made from seawater mixed with a sticky fluid that Finizen secretes from its blowhole.

Palafin (Zero Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon changes its appearance if it hears its allies calling for help. Palafin will never show anybody its moment of transformation.
Violet: Its physical capabilities are no different than a Finizen’s, but when its allies are in danger, it transforms and powers itself up.

Palafin (Hero Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon’s ancient genes have awakened. It is now so extraordinarily strong that it can easily lift a cruise ship with one fin.
Violet: This hero of the ocean swims at a speed of 50 knots and saves drowning people and Pokémon.

Varoom
Scarlet: It is said that this Pokémon was born when an unknown poison Pokémon entered and inspirited an engine left at a scrap-processing factory.
Violet: The steel section is Varoom’s actual body. This Pokémon clings to rocks and converts the minerals within into energy to fuel its activities.

Revavroom
Scarlet: It creates a gas out of poison and minerals from rocks. It then detonates the gas in its cylinders— now numbering eight—to generate energy.
Violet: Revavroom viciously threatens others with the sound of its exhaust. It sticks its tongue out from its cylindrical mouth and sprays toxic fluids.

Cyclizar
Scarlet: Apparently Cyclizar has been allowing people to ride on its back since ancient times. Depictions of this have been found in 10,000-year-old murals.
Violet: It can sprint at over 70 mph while carrying a human. The rider’s body heat warms Cyclizar’s back and lifts the Pokémon’s spirit.

Orthworm
Scarlet: When attacked, this Pokémon will wield the tendrils on its body like fists and pelt the opponent with a storm of punches.
Violet: This Pokémon lives in arid deserts. It maintains its metal body by consuming iron from the soil.

Glimmet
Scarlet: It absorbs nutrients from cave walls. The petals it wears are made of crystallized poison.
Violet: Glimmet’s toxic mineral crystals look just like flower petals. This Pokémon scatters poisonous powder like pollen to protect itself.

Glimmora
Scarlet: When this Pokémon detects danger, it will open up its crystalline petals and fire beams from its conical body.
Violet: Glimmora’s petals are made of crystallized poison energy. It has recently become evident that these petals resemble Tera Jewels.

Greavard
Scarlet: It is said that a dog Pokémon that died in the wild without ever interacting with a human was reborn as this Pokémon.
Violet: This friendly Pokémon doesn’t like being alone. Pay it even the slightest bit of attention, and it will follow you forever.

Houndstone
Scarlet: Houndstone spends most of its time sleeping in graveyards. Among all the dog Pokémon, this one is most loyal to its master.
Violet: A lovingly mourned Pokémon was reborn as Houndstone. It doesn’t like anyone touching the protuberance atop its head.

Flamigo
Scarlet: This Pokémon apparently ties the base of its neck into a knot so that energy stored in its belly does not escape from its beak.
Violet: Thanks to a behavior of theirs known as “synchronizing,” an entire flock of these Pokémon can attack simultaneously in perfect harmony.

Cetoddle
Scarlet: This species left the ocean and began living on land a very long time ago. It seems to be closely related to Wailmer.
Violet: It lives in frigid regions in pods of five or so individuals. It loves the minerals found in snow and ice.

Cetitan
Scarlet: This Pokémon wanders around snowy, icy areas. It protects its body with powerful muscles and a thick layer of fat under its skin.
Violet: Ice energy builds up in the horn on its upper jaw, causing the horn to reach cryogenic temperatures that freeze its surroundings.

Veluza
Scarlet: When Veluza discards unnecessary flesh, its mind becomes honed and its psychic power increases. The spare flesh has a mild but delicious flavor.
Violet: Veluza has excellent regenerative capabilities. It sheds spare flesh from its body to boost its agility, then charges at its prey.

Dondozo
Scarlet: This Pokémon is a glutton, but it’s bad at getting food. It teams up with a Tatsugiri to catch prey.
Violet: It treats Tatsugiri like its boss and follows it loyally. Though powerful, Dondozo is apparently not very smart.

Tatsugiri (Curly Form)
Scarlet: This is a small dragon Pokémon. It lives inside the mouth of Dondozo to protect itself from enemies on the outside.
Violet: Tatsugiri is an extremely cunning Pokémon. It feigns weakness to lure in prey, then orders its partner to attack.

Tatsugiri (Droopy Form)
Scarlet: This species’ differing colors and patterns are apparently the result of Tatsugiri changing itself to suit the preferences of the prey it lures in.
Violet: This Pokémon tricks its opponents by playing dead. It is small and weak, but it uses its smarts to survive.

Tatsugiri (Stretchy Form)
Scarlet: Bird Pokémon are its main prey. This Pokémon knows it’s weak, so it hunts with a partner.
Violet: It’s one of the most intelligent dragon Pokémon. It camouflages itself by inflating its throat sac.

Annihilape
Scarlet: When its anger rose beyond a critical point, this Pokémon gained power that is unfettered by the limits of its physical body.
Violet: It imbues its fists with the power of the rage that it kept hidden in its heart. Opponents struck by these imbued fists will be shattered to their core.

Clodsire
Scarlet: When attacked, this Pokémon will retaliate by sticking thick spines out from its body. It’s a risky move that puts everything on the line.
Violet: It lives at the bottom of ponds and swamps. It will carry Wooper on its back and ferry them across water from one shore to the other.

Farigiraf
Scarlet: Now that the brain waves from the head and tail are synced up, the psychic power of this Pokémon is 10 times stronger than Girafarig’s.
Violet: The hardened head from the tail protects the head of the main body as Farigiraf whips its long neck around to headbutt enemies.

Dudunsparce (Two-Segment Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon uses its hard tail to make its nest by boring holes into bedrock deep underground. The nest can reach lengths of over six miles.
Violet: It drives enemies out of its nest by sucking in enough air to fill its long, narrow lungs, then releasing the air in an intense blast.

Dudunsparce (Three-Segment Form)
Scarlet: The gentle Dudunsparce will put Pokémon that wander into its nest onto its back and carry them to the entrance.
Violet: A recent study uncovered that the number of segments a Dudunsparce’s body has is determined by the Pokémon’s genes.

Kingambit
Scarlet: Only a Bisharp that stands above all others in its vast army can evolve into Kingambit.
Violet: Though it commands a massive army in battle, it’s not skilled at devising complex strategies. It just uses brute strength to keep pushing.

Great Tusk
Scarlet: Sightings of this Pokémon have occurred in recent years. The name Great Tusk was taken from a creature listed in a certain book.
Violet: This creature resembles a mysterious Pokémon that, according to a paranormal magazine, has lived since ancient times.

Scream Tail
Scarlet: There has been only one reported sighting of this Pokémon. It resembles a mysterious creature depicted in an old expedition journal.
Violet: It resembles a mysterious Pokémon described in a paranormal magazine as a Jigglypuff from one billion years ago.

Brute Bonnet
Scarlet: It is possible that the creature listed as Brute Bonnet in a certain book could actually be this Pokémon.
Violet: It bears a slight resemblance to a Pokémon described in a dubious magazine as a cross between a dinosaur and a mushroom.

Flutter Mane
Scarlet: This Pokémon has characteristics similar to those of Flutter Mane, a creature mentioned in a certain book.
Violet: It has similar features to a ghostly pterosaur that was covered in a paranormal magazine, but the two have little else in common.

Slither Wing
Scarlet: This mysterious Pokémon has some similarities to a creature that an old book introduced as Slither Wing.
Violet: This Pokémon somewhat resembles an ancient form of Volcarona that was introduced in a dubious magazine.

Sandy Shocks
Scarlet: No records exist of this Pokémon being caught. Data is lacking, but the Pokémon’s traits match up with a creature shown in an expedition journal.
Violet: It slightly resembles a Magneton that lived for 10,000 years and was featured in an article in a paranormal magazine.

Iron Treads
Scarlet: This Pokémon closely resembles a scientific weapon that a paranormal magazine claimed was sent to this planet by aliens.
Violet: Sightings of this Pokémon have occurred in recent years. It resembles a mysterious object described in an old expedition journal.

Iron Bundle
Scarlet: Its shape is similar to a robot featured in a paranormal magazine article. The robot was said to have been created by an ancient civilization.
Violet: It resembles a mysterious object mentioned in an old book. There are only two reported sightings of this Pokémon.

Iron Hands
Scarlet: It is very similar to a cyborg covered exclusively by a paranormal magazine. The cyborg was said to be the modified form of a certain athlete.
Violet: This Pokémon shares many similarities with Iron Hands, an object mentioned in a certain expedition journal.

Iron Jugulis
Scarlet: It resembles a certain Pokémon introduced in a paranormal magazine, described as the offspring of a Hydreigon that fell in love with a robot.
Violet: It’s possible that Iron Jugulis, an object described in an old book, may actually be this Pokémon.

Iron Moth
Scarlet: This Pokémon resembles an unknown object described in a paranormal magazine as a UFO sent to observe humanity.
Violet: No records exist of this species being caught. Data is lacking, but the Pokémon’s traits match up with an object described in an old book.

Iron Thorns
Scarlet: It has some similarities to a Pokémon introduced in a dubious magazine as a Tyranitar from one billion years into the future.
Violet: Some of its notable features match those of an object named within a certain expedition journal as Iron Thorns.

Frigibax
Scarlet: Frigibax absorbs heat through its dorsal fin and converts the heat into ice energy. The higher the temperature, the more energy Frigibax stores.
Violet: This Pokémon lives in forests and craggy areas. Using the power of its dorsal fin, it cools the inside of its nest like a refrigerator.

Arctibax
Scarlet: Arctibax freezes the air around it, protecting its face with an ice mask and turning its dorsal fin into a blade of ice.
Violet: It attacks with the blade of its frozen dorsal fin by doing a front flip in the air. Arctibax’s strong back and legs allow it to pull off this technique.

Baxcalibur
Scarlet: This Pokémon blasts cryogenic air out from its mouth. This air can instantly freeze even liquid-hot lava.
Violet: It launches itself into battle by flipping upside down and spewing frigid air from its mouth. It finishes opponents off with its dorsal blade.

Gimmighoul (Chest Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon was born inside a treasure chest about 1,500 years ago. It sucks the life-force out of scoundrels who try to steal the treasure.
Violet: It lives inside an old treasure chest. Sometimes it gets left in shop corners since no one realizes it’s actually a Pokémon.

Gimmighoul (Roaming Form)
Scarlet: This Pokémon was born from passion that seeped into a coin. It wanders, apparently seeking to return to the treasure chest it once inhabited.
Violet: It wanders around, carrying an old coin on its back. It survives by draining the life-force from humans who try to pick up its coin.

Gholdengo
Scarlet: Its body seems to be made up of 1,000 coins. This Pokémon gets along well with others and is quick to make friends with anybody.
Violet: It has a sturdy body made up of stacked coins. Gholdengo overwhelms its enemies by firing coin after coin at them in quick succession.

Wo-Chien
Scarlet: The grudge of a person punished for writing the king’s evil deeds upon wooden tablets has clad itself in dead leaves to become a Pokémon.
Violet: It drains the life-force from vegetation, causing nearby forests to instantly wither and fields to turn barren.

Chien-Pao
Scarlet: This Pokémon can control 100 tons of fallen snow. It plays around innocently by leaping in and out of avalanches it has caused.
Violet: The hatred of those who perished by the sword long ago has clad itself in snow and become a Pokémon.

Ting-Lu
Scarlet: The fear poured into an ancient ritual vessel has clad itself in rocks and dirt to become a Pokémon.
Violet: It slowly brings its exceedingly heavy head down upon the ground, splitting the earth open with huge fissures that run over 160 feet deep.

Chi-Yu
Scarlet: It controls flames burning at over 5,400 degrees Fahrenheit. It casually swims through the sea of lava it creates by melting rock and sand.
Violet: The envy accumulated within curved beads that sparked multiple conflicts has clad itself in fire and become a Pokémon.

Roaring Moon
Scarlet: It is possible that this is the creature listed as Roaring Moon in an expedition journal that still holds many mysteries.
Violet: According to an article in a dubious magazine, this Pokémon has some connection to a phenomenon that occurs in a certain region.

Iron Valiant
Scarlet: It has some similarities to a mad scientist’s invention covered in a paranormal magazine.
Violet: It’s possible that this is the object listed as Iron Valiant in a certain expedition journal.

Koraidon (Limited Build)
Scarlet: The ecology and other data about this Pokémon are unknown. It was named Koraidon by the professor who discovered it.
Violet: It has similar characteristics to a creature described in an old book as the Winged King.

Koraidon (Apex Build)
Scarlet: This seems to be the Winged King mentioned in an old expedition journal. It was said to have split the land with its bare fists.
Violet: This Pokémon resembles Cyclizar, but it is far burlier and more ferocious. Nothing is known about its ecology or other features.

Miraidon (Low-Power Mode)
Scarlet: Its characteristics match those of a mysterious object recorded in an old expedition journal as the Iron Serpent.
Violet: It was given the name Miraidon by the professor who discovered it. Its ecology and other details are unknown.

Miraidon (Ultimate Mode)
Scarlet: Much remains unknown about this creature. It resembles Cyclizar, but it is far more ruthless and powerful.
Violet: This seems to be the Iron Serpent mentioned in an old book. The Iron Serpent is said to have turned the land to ash with its lightning.

Walking Wake
Scarlet: This ferocious creature is shrouded in mystery. It’s named after an aquatic monster mentioned in an old expedition journal.
Violet: It resembles an illustration published in a paranormal magazine, said to be a depiction of a super-ancient Suicune.

Iron Leaves
Scarlet: Many of its physical characteristics match those of a Virizion from the future that was covered in a paranormal magazine.
Violet: According to the few eyewitness accounts that exist, it used its shining blades to julienne large trees and boulders.

Dipplin
Scarlet: Dipplin is two creatures in one Pokémon. Its evolution was triggered by a special apple grown only in one place.
Violet: The head sticking out belongs to the fore-wyrm, while the tail belongs to the core-wyrm. The two share one apple and help each other out.

Poltchageist (Counterfeit Form)
Scarlet: Supposedly, the regrets of a tea ceremony master who died before perfecting his craft lingered in some matcha and became a Pokémon.
Violet: Poltchageist looks like a regional form of Sinistea, but it was recently discovered that the two Pokémon are entirely unrelated.

Poltchageist (Artisan Form)
Scarlet: It sprinkles some of its powdery body onto food and drains the life-force from those who so much as lick it.
Violet: It has taken up residence in a very expensive tea caddy. It takes an expert to distinguish the expensive tea caddies from the cheap ones.

Sinistcha (Unremarkable Form)
Scarlet: It pretends to be tea, trying to fool people into drinking it so it can drain their life-force. Its ruse is generally unsuccessful.
Violet: It prefers cool, dark places, such as the back of a shelf or the space beneath a home’s floorboards. It wanders in search of prey after sunset.

Sinistcha (Masterpiece Form)
Scarlet: It lives inside a superb teacup that was crafted by a potter of great renown. Collectors positively adore this Pokémon.
Violet: The more stirring it does with the tea whisk on its head, the more energy it builds up. It does this to prepare for battle.

Okidogi
Scarlet: After all its muscles were stimulated by the toxic chain around its neck, Okidogi transformed and gained a powerful physique.
Violet: Okidogi is a ruffian with a short temper. It can pulverize anything by swinging around the chain on its neck.

Munkidori
Scarlet: The chain is made from toxins that enhance capabilities. It stimulated Munkidori’s brain and caused the Pokémon’s psychic powers to bloom.
Violet: Munkidori keeps itself somewhere safe while it toys with its foes, using psychokinesis to induce intense dizziness.

Fezandipiti
Scarlet: Fezandipiti owes its beautiful looks and lovely voice to the toxic stimulants emanating from the chain wrapped around its body.
Violet: Fezandipiti beats its glossy wings to scatter pheromones that captivate people and Pokémon.

Ogerpon (Teal Mask)
Scarlet: This Pokémon’s type changes based on which mask it’s wearing. It confounds its enemies with nimble movements and kicks.
Violet: This mischief-loving Pokémon is full of curiosity. It battles by drawing out the type-based energy contained within its masks.

Ogerpon (Wellspring Mask)
Scarlet: This form excels in both attack and defense. It ceaselessly unleashes moves like a spring gushes water.
Violet: In this form, it draws on the power of water. It attacks unrelentingly with kicks and ivy strikes.

Ogerpon (Hearthflame Mask)
Scarlet: This form is the most aggressive, bombarding enemies with the intensity of flames blazing within a hearth.
Violet: In this form, it draws on the power of fire. It spears its enemies with thorn-covered ivy.

Ogerpon (Cornserstone Mask)
Scarlet: This form has excellent defenses, absorbing impacts solidly like the cornerstones that support houses.
Violet: In this form, it draws on the power of stone. Its body is rock-solid, protecting it from all manner of attacks.

Archaludon
Scarlet: It gathers static electricity from its surroundings. The beams it launches when down on all fours are tremendously powerful.
Violet: It digs holes on mountains, searching for food. It’s so durable that being caught in a cave-in won’t faze it.

Hydrapple
Scarlet: Seven syrpents live inside an apple made of syrup. The syrpent in the center is the commander.
Violet: These capricious syrpents have banded together. On the rare occasion that their moods align, their true power is unleashed.

Gouging Fire
Scarlet: There are scant few reports of this creature being sighted. One short video shows it rampaging and spouting pillars of flame.
Violet: It resembles an eerie Pokémon once shown in a paranormal magazine. That Pokémon was said to be an Entei regenerated from a fossil.

Raging Bolt
Scarlet: It’s said to incinerate everything around it with lightning launched from its fur. Very little is known about this creature.
Violet: It bears resemblance to a Pokémon that became a hot topic for a short while after a paranormal magazine touted it as Raikou’s ancestor.

Iron Boulder
Scarlet: It resembles a Pokémon described in a dubious magazine as a Terrakion that had been modified by an evil organization.
Violet: It was named after a mysterious object recorded in an old book. Its body seems to be metallic.

Iron Crown
Scarlet: It resembles a mysterious object introduced in a paranormal magazine as a cutting-edge weapon shaped like a Cobalion.
Violet: There was supposedly an incident in which it launched shining blades to cut everything around it to pieces. Little else is known about it.

Terapagos (Normal Form)
Scarlet: Terapagos protects itself using its power to transform energy into hard crystals. This Pokémon is the source of the Terastal phenomenon.
Violet: It’s thought that this Pokémon lived in ancient Paldea until it got caught in seismic shifts and went extinct.

Terapagos (Terastal Form)
Scarlet: Upon sensing danger, it prepares itself for battle by creating a sturdy shell of crystallized Terastal energy.
Violet: The shell is made of crystallized Terastal energy. When struck by a move, this shell absorbs the move’s energy and transfers it to Terapagos.

Terapagos (Stellar Form)
Scarlet: In this form, Terapagos resembles the world as the ancients saw it, and its Terastal energy is abnormally amplified.
Violet: An old expedition journal describes the sight of this Pokémon buried in the depths of the earth as resembling a planet floating in space.

Pecharunt
Scarlet: It feeds others toxic mochi that draw out desires and capabilities. Those who eat the mochi fall under Pecharunt’s control, chained to its will.
Violet: Its peach-shaped shell serves as storage for a potent poison. It makes poisonous mochi and serves them to people and Pokémon.
