Caterpie
Sun: When attacked by bird Pokémon, it resists by releasing a terrifically strong odor from its antennae, but it often becomes their prey.
Moon: It’s easy to catch, and it grows quickly, making it one of the top recommendations for novice Pokémon Trainers.

Metapod
Sun: Its shell is filled with its soft innards. It doesn’t move much because of the risk it might carelessly spill its innards out.
Moon: Its shell is hard, but it’s still just a bug shell. It’s been known to break, so intense battles with it should be avoided.

Butterfree
Sun: Close examination of its large eyes reveals that each eye is composed of a myriad of tiny eyes.
Moon: When attacked by other Pokémon, it defends itself by scattering its poisonous scales and fluttering its wings.

Rattata
Sun: Its incisors continue growing until its death. If its Trainer doesn’t offer it a file to gnaw on, it will gnaw on door frames, table legs, and so on.
Moon: With their strong capacity for survival, they can live in dirty places without concern. Left unchecked, their numbers multiply rapidly.

Alolan Rattata
Sun: With its incisors, it gnaws through doors and infiltrates people’s homes. Then, with a twitch of its whiskers, it steals whatever food it finds.
Moon: When the sun goes down, it becomes active. It runs around town on a chase for good food for the boss of its nest—Raticate.

Raticate
Sun: Its hind feet are webbed, so it’s a strong swimmer. It can cross rivers and sometimes even oceans.
Moon: Its disposition is far more violent than its looks would suggest. Don’t let your hand get too close to its face, as it could bite your hand clean off.

Alolan Raticate
Sun: It forms a group of Rattata, which it assumes command of. Each group has its own territory, and disputes over food happen often.
Moon: This gourmet Pokémon is particular about the taste and freshness of its food. Restaurants where Raticate live have a good reputation.

Spearow
Sun: Its short wings make it inept at flying. It moves about hurriedly and pecks at Bug-type Pokémon in the tall grass.
Moon: Farmers whose fields are troubled by bug Pokémon appreciate Spearow for its vigorous appetite and look after it.

Fearow
Sun: It’s tough and has excellent stamina. It has no problem flying continuously for a whole day carrying a heavy load.
Moon: Drawings of a Pokémon resembling Fearow can be seen in murals from deep in ancient history.

Pikachu
Sun: A plan was recently announced to gather many Pikachu and make an electric power plant.
Moon: It’s in its nature to store electricity. It feels stressed now and then if it’s unable to fully discharge the electricity.

Pikachu in a cap
Sun: This form of Pikachu is somewhat rare. It wears the hat of its Trainer, who is also its partner.
Moon: This Pikachu is wearing its Trainer’s cap. Since the cap’s not the right size, the fit is a bit loose.

Raichu
Sun: It unleashes electric shocks that can reach 100,000 volts. When agitated, it can knock out even an Indian elephant.
Moon: It becomes aggressive when it has electricity stored up. At such times, even its Trainer has to take care to avoid being attacked.

Alolan Raichu
Sun: It only evolves to this form in the Alola region. According to researchers, its diet is one of the causes of this change.
Moon: It uses psychokinesis to control electricity. It hops aboard its own tail, using psychic power to lift the tail and move about while riding it.

Sandshrew
Sun: It can roll its body into a ball. It moves through the desert by rolling at high speeds.
Moon: It usually makes its home in deserts and arid zones, where rain does not fall. It digs holes to catch Bug-type Pokémon.

Alolan Sandshrew
Sun: It lives on snowy mountains. Its steel shell is very hard—so much so, it can’t roll its body up into a ball.
Moon: An ancient tradition of Alolan festivals, still carried on to this day, is a competition to slide Sandshrew across ice as far as one can.

Sandslash
Sun: Although they are sharp, its claws and spikes often break off. They grow back the next day, so it is not bothered by the temporary loss.
Moon: It uses its claws to climb trees and then curls its body into a spiny ball, ready to drop onto any prey that appears.

Alolan Sandslash
Sun: Fleeing a volcanic eruption, it settled on a snowy mountain. As it races through the snowfields, it sends up a spray of snow.
Moon: This Pokémon’s steel spikes are sheathed in ice. Stabs from these spikes cause deep wounds and severe frostbite as well.

Clefairy
Sun: Its adorable behavior and appearance make it popular with men and women, young and old. Its numbers are few, however.
Moon: On nights with a full moon, they gather together and dance. The surrounding area is enveloped in an abnormal magnetic field.

Clefable
Sun: They don’t like to reveal themselves in front of people. They live quietly in packs deep in the mountains.
Moon: According to tradition, people who see a pair of Clefable skipping by can look forward to a happy marriage.

Vulpix
Sun: Its beautiful fur and tails have made it very popular. As it grows, its tails split to form more tails.
Moon: From its mouth spew flames that seem to resemble the spirits of the deceased. Some people mistakenly think this fire is a ghost.

Alolan Vulpix
Sun: It exhales air colder than -58 degrees Fahrenheit. Elderly people in Alola call this Pokémon by an older name—Keokeo.
Moon: In hot weather, this Pokémon makes ice shards with its six tails and sprays them around to cool itself off.

Ninetales
Sun: Legend has it that this mystical Pokémon was formed when nine saints coalesced into one.
Moon: Said to live for a thousand years, this Pokémon uses its supernatural abilities to manipulate fire. It can burn its prey to a crisp as it pleases.

Alolan Ninetales
Sun: It creates drops of ice in its coat and showers them over its enemies. Anyone who angers it will be frozen stiff in an instant.
Moon: Possessing a calm demeanor, this Pokémon was revered as a deity incarnate before it was identified as a regional variant of Ninetales.

Jigglypuff
Sun: It hugely inflates its stomach and sings a mysterious melody. If you hear this melody, you’ll become sleepy right away.
Moon: Jigglypuff possess a vocal range that exceeds 12 octaves, but each individual’s singing skill depends on its own effort.

Wigglytuff
Sun: It sheds its fine fur when the seasons change. The fur is gathered and spun into a luxurious yarn.
Moon: As it inhales, it expands...and expands...and expands. Wigglytuff compete to see which one can inflate itself the most.

Zubat
Sun: It sleeps in caves during the day. It has no eyes, so to check its surroundings while flying, it emits ultrasonic waves.
Moon: When exposed to sunlight, they suffer burns. The frequency of their ultrasonic waves can differ slightly from colony to colony.

Golbat
Sun: Its thick fangs are hollow like straws, making them unexpectedly fragile. These fangs are specialized for sucking blood.
Moon: Sometimes they drink so much blood, they can’t fly anymore. Then they fall to the ground and become food for other Pokémon.

Paras
Sun: No matter how much it eats, the mushrooms growing on its back steal away most of the nutrients it consumes.
Moon: Mushrooms called tochukaso sprout from its back. They can be dried and powdered to make a medicine used to extend life.

Parasect
Sun: The large mushroom on its back controls it. It often fights over territory with Shiinotic.
Moon: It scatters toxic spores from its mushroom cap. Once harvested, these spores can be steeped and boiled down to prepare herbal medicines.

Diglett
Sun: It chews on plant roots underground. Farmers whose vegetables are vulnerable find it can be quite a pest.
Moon: Many farmers cherish and nurture Diglett because its droppings enrich the soil it lives in.

Alolan Diglett
Sun: Its head sports an altered form of whiskers made of metal. When in communication with its comrades, its whiskers wobble to and fro.
Moon: Its golden hairs function as sensors. It pokes them out of its burrow to monitor its surroundings.

Dugtrio
Sun: This set of triplets moves cooperatively. It’s the power of teamwork that enables this Pokémon to dig to a depth of 60 miles.
Moon: Despite the closeness between this Pokémon and farmers and other people, no one has ever seen the parts of it concealed underground.

Alolan Dugtrio
Sun: Its shining gold hair provides it with protection. It’s reputed that keeping any of its fallen hairs will bring bad luck.
Moon: These Pokémon are cherished in the Alola region, where they are thought to be feminine deities of the land incarnate.

Meowth
Sun: It lies around all day, becoming active near dusk. At night, it wanders the city in search of loose change.
Moon: It loves shiny things. It often fights with Murkrow over prey they’re both trying to catch.

Alolan Meowth
Sun: This Pokémon was not originally found in Alola. Human actions caused a surge in their numbers, and they went feral. They’re prideful and crafty.
Moon: When its delicate pride is wounded, or when the gold coin on its forehead is dirtied, it flies into a hysterical rage.

Persian
Sun: It has a violent temperament. It will attack anything that looks it in the eye. Its sharp claws inflict deep wounds.
Moon: It has a high opinion of itself, although not to the same extent as the Alolan Persian. It’s quite difficult to make friends with this Pokémon.

Alolan Persian
Sun: Its round face and smooth coat—softer than the most high-class velvet—have made this a very popular Pokémon in Alola.
Moon: It looks down on everyone other than itself. Its preferred tactics are sucker punches and blindside attacks.

Psyduck
Sun: As a result of headaches so fierce they cause it to cry, it sometimes uses psychokinesis without meaning to.
Moon: This Pokémon is troubled by constant headaches. The more pain it’s in, the more powerful its psychokinesis becomes.

Golduck
Sun: It is said that the red part of its forehead grants supernatural powers to those who possess one, so it was over-hunted in the past.
Moon: It swims along the banks of lakes and catches fish Pokémon. It takes them to the shore and quietly eats them up.

Mankey
Sun: It can spontaneously become enraged. Everyone near it clears out as it rampages, and the resulting loneliness makes it angrier still.
Moon: Its raging tires it out and causes it to fall asleep, but the anger resonating in its dreams causes it to wake up—which infuriates it all over again.

Primeape
Sun: It has been known to become so angry that it dies as a result. Its face looks peaceful in death, however.
Moon: Some researchers theorize that Primeape remains angry even when inside a Poké Ball.

Growlithe
Sun: It’s both clever and loyal, but if a stranger tries to invade its territory, it barks threateningly.
Moon: It looks cute, but when you approach another Trainer’s Growlithe, it will bark at you and bite.

Arcanine
Sun: Overflowing with beauty and majesty, this strong Pokémon appears in ancient Eastern folklore.
Moon: The fire burning inside its body serves as the energy to fuel it as it runs great distances. It appears in many legends.

Poliwag
Sun: The swirl on its belly is its internal organs showing through. If the swirl is tinged white, that means it’s affected by some disease.
Moon: It’s still not very good at walking. Its Trainers should train this Pokémon to walk every day.

Poliwhirl
Sun: Although it can live on land, it prefers to stay in the water, where it has fewer natural enemies.
Moon: It marches over the land in search of bug Pokémon to eat. Then it takes them underwater so it can dine on them where it’s safe.

Poliwrath
Sun: Poliwrath in the Alola region are strong swimmers that use the breaststroke. Many children learn to swim by imitating Poliwrath.
Moon: Its percentage of body fat is nearly zero. Its body is entirely muscle, which makes it heavy and forces its swimming prowess to develop.

Abra
Sun: It sleeps 18 hours a day. Even while sleeping, it will teleport itself to treetops and pick and eat berries there.
Moon: It can teleport itself to safety while it’s asleep, but when it wakes, it doesn’t know where it is, so it panics.

Kadabra
Sun: A theory exists that this Pokémon was a young boy who couldn’t control his psychic powers and ended up transformed into this Pokémon.
Moon: Kadabra’s presence infests televisions and monitors with creepy shadows that bring bad luck.

Alakazam
Sun: It is said to have an IQ of approximately 5,000. Its overflowing psychokinetic powers cause headaches to anyone nearby.
Moon: Its brain cells continue to increase in number until its death. The older the Alakazam, the larger its head.

Mega Alakazam
Sun: As a result of Mega Evolution, its power has been entirely converted into psychic energy, and it has lost all strength in its muscles.
Moon: Its hidden psychic power has been unleashed. A glance at someone gives it knowledge of the course of that person’s life, from birth to death.

Machop
Sun: It loves working out. As it gazes at its muscles, which continue to swell day by day, it becomes more and more dedicated to its training.
Moon: With its superhuman strength, it’s able to throw a hundred people all at the same time. Its strength comes from lifting Graveler every day.

Machoke
Sun: As a result of its continual workouts, it has developed tremendous power. It uses that power to help people with their work.
Moon: It willingly assists with hard labor because it knows the work is good training for its muscles.

Machamp
Sun: It unleashes megaton-level punches that send opponents flying clear over the horizon.
Moon: It can lift heavy loads with the greatest of ease. It can even heft dump trucks. But its clumsy fingers prevent it from doing any precision work.

Tentacool
Sun: They can be found lying dehydrated on beaches, but they are often still alive. When soaked in water, they will revive.
Moon: It drifts in shallow seas, such as the areas near beaches. If you get bitten or stabbed by its toxic tentacles, rush to the hospital.

Tentacruel
Sun: Normally, it has 80 poisonous tentacles. The longer one has been alive, the fewer tentacles it will have.
Moon: Although these Pokémon are rare, when a large outbreak of them occurs, all fish Pokémon disappear from the surrounding sea.

Geodude
Sun: Its round body makes it easy to pick up, but it is hard and heavy. It’s dangerous to play with them as if they were snowballs.
Moon: There are plenty of them to be found along any road. A scholar with too much free time once counted a hundred of them along a single route.

Alolan Geodude
Sun: Its body is a magnetic stone. Iron sand attaches firmly to the portions of its body that are particularly magnetic.
Moon: If you accidentally step on a Geodude sleeping on the ground, you’ll hear a crunching sound and feel a shock ripple through your entire body.

Graveler
Sun: Mossy rocks are its favorite food. It can devour a ton a day while crunching loudly.
Moon: This slow-footed Pokémon moves by curling up and rolling instead of walking. With enough momentum, its speed can exceed 60 mph.

Alolan Graveler
Sun: Its preferred food is dravite. After it has eaten this mineral, crystals form inside the Pokémon, rising to the surface of part of its body.
Moon: They eat rocks and often get into a scrap over them. The shock of Graveler smashing together causes a flash of light and a booming noise.

Golem
Sun: Its body can survive dynamite blasts without a single scratch, but it hates rain and humidity.
Moon: Once a year, this Pokémon molts, and its shed shell returns to the soil. This process creates enriched soil, so farmers collect the shells.

Alolan Golem
Sun: It fires rocks charged with electricity. Even if the rock isn’t fired that accurately, just grazing an opponent will cause numbness and fainting.
Moon: Because it can’t fire boulders at a rapid pace, it’s been known to seize nearby Geodude and fire them from its back.

Slowpoke
Sun: Its long tail often breaks off. It doesn’t really feel any pain, though, and the tail grows back, so Slowpoke isn’t particularly bothered.
Moon: Alolan home cooking involves drying Slowpoke tails and then simmering them into a salty stew.

Slowbro
Sun: It spaces out while gazing at the sea. With Shellder’s poison flowing through its body, it becomes even spacier.
Moon: Whenever Shellder bites down hard on its tail, it gives Slowbro a flash of inspiration...which it forgets a moment later.

Mega Slowbro
Sun: All the energy from Mega Evolution poured into the Shellder on its tail, leaving Slowpoke to be swallowed whole.
Moon: When bathed in the energy of Mega Evolution, Shellder converts into impregnable armor. There is virtually no change in Slowpoke.

Magnemite
Sun: They gather in places where electricity is available. They can be found clinging to the steel towers used to support power lines.
Moon: It sends out electromagnetic waves, which let it float through the air. Touching it while it’s eating electricity will give you a full-body shock.

Magneton
Sun: When three Magnemite link together, their brains also become one. They do not become three times more intelligent.
Moon: It has about three times the electrical power of Magnemite. For some reason, outbreaks of this Pokémon happen when lots of sunspots appear.

Grimer
Sun: Its main source of food is the slimy industrial waste of factories. This Pokémon’s numbers have been decreasing in recent years.
Moon: It was born from sludge transformed by exposure to X-rays from the moon. When its internal load of germs decreases, it dies.

Alolan Grimer
Sun: A Grimer, which had been brought in to solve a problem with garbage, developed over time into this form.
Moon: The crystals on Grimer’s body are lumps of toxins. If one falls off, lethal poisons leak out.

Muk
Sun: The stench it gives off will make your nose scrunch up. Still, there are Muk fans who think that’s a good thing.
Moon: After recent environmental improvements, this Pokémon is now hardly seen at all. People speculate that it may go extinct at some point.

Alolan Muk
Sun: The garbage it eats causes continuous chemical changes in its body, which produce its exceedingly vivid coloration.
Moon: While it’s unexpectedly quiet and friendly, if it’s not fed any trash for a while, it will smash its Trainer’s furnishings and eat up the fragments.

Shellder
Sun: The hardness of its shell surpasses the hardness of a diamond. In days gone by, people used the shells to make shields.
Moon: This Pokémon’s tongue is always hanging out. It uses its tongue with great dexterity to dig up sand from the seabed in its search for food.

Cloyster
Sun: Its hard shell cannot be shattered—not even by a bomb. The contents of the shell remain unknown.
Moon: Excavation of the tombs of ancient hunting tribes has turned up many spears tipped with spikes that had fallen off this Pokémon’s shell.

Gastly
Sun: Should a strange light be seen flickering in an abandoned building, Gastly is lurking there.
Moon: Although Gastly is barely visible, when it’s near, a faint sweet smell lingers.

Haunter
Sun: It strikes at humans from total darkness. Those licked by its cold tongue grow weaker with each passing day until they die.
Moon: It fears the light and revels in the dark. It may be on the verge of extinction in cities that stay brightly lit at night.

Gengar
Sun: Should you feel yourself attacked by a sudden chill, it is evidence of an approaching Gengar. There is no escaping it. Give up.
Moon: It apparently wishes for a traveling companion. Since it was once human itself, it tries to create one by taking the lives of other humans.

Mega Gengar
Sun: Gengar’s relationships are warped. It has no interest in opponents unless it perceives them as prey.
Moon: The energy of Mega Evolution awakened it. It sinks into another dimension, where it keeps a patient watch for its chance to attack.

Drowzee
Sun: A Pokémon that nourishes itself by eating dreams, it is thought to share common ancestry with Munna and Musharna.
Moon: It finds really fun dreams tasty. When it makes friends with people, it may show them the most delicious dreams it’s ever eaten.

Hypno
Sun: While it is an extremely dangerous Pokémon, people who are in need of a good, sound sleep call it their savior.
Moon: As a matter of course, it makes anyone it meets fall asleep and has a taste of their dreams. Anyone having a good dream, it carries off.

Exeggcute
Sun: Its six eggs use telepathy to communicate among themselves. It is believed to carry plant genes and the genes of other species.
Moon: Six of them together form a full-fledged Pokémon. It’s often hunted by Crabrawler, but uses psychokinesis to drive it off.

Exeggutor
Sun: Each of its heads has its own will. They use telepathy to discuss their plans before coming to a joint decision.
Moon: When the time comes, one of its three heads falls off. Before long, the fallen head grows into an Exeggcute.

Alolan Exeggutor
Sun: Alola is the best environment for this Pokémon. Local people take pride in its appearance, saying this is how Exeggutor ought to look.
Moon: As it grew taller and taller, it outgrew its reliance on psychic powers, while within it awakened the power of the sleeping dragon.

Cubone
Sun: When it thinks of its deceased mother, it weeps loudly. Mandibuzz that hear its cries will attack it from the air.
Moon: The skull it wears on its head is that of its dead mother. According to some, it will evolve when it comes to terms with the pain of her death.

Marowak
Sun: Originally, it was weak and timid. After evolution, its temperament becomes violent, and it begins to wield bones as weapons.
Moon: This Pokémon is out for vengeance on its natural enemy, Mandibuzz. It throws bones like boomerangs to try to take it down.

Alolan Marowak
Sun: The bones it possesses were once its mother’s. Its mother’s regrets have become like a vengeful spirit protecting this Pokémon.
Moon: Its custom is to mourn its lost companions. Mounds of dirt by the side of the road mark the graves of the Marowak.

Chansey
Sun: The eggs laid by Chansey are rich in nutrients and a favorite food of many Pokémon.
Moon: Not only are these Pokémon fast runners, they’re also few in number, so anyone who finds one must be lucky indeed.

Kangaskhan
Sun: Kangaskhan’s maternal love is so deep that it will brave death to protect its offspring.
Moon: The child in its pouch leaves home after roughly three years. That is the only time the mother is heard to cry wildly.

Mega Kangaskhan
Sun: Mega Kangaskhan’s strength derives from the mother’s happiness about her child’s growth. Watching it grow up keeps her spirits high.
Moon: Thanks to Mega Evolution, its child grows. But as the child is good only at fighting and nothing else, its mother feels uneasy about its future.

Goldeen
Sun: When the weather grows warm, they form groups and swim upriver. This sight serves as a poetic reminder that spring has arrived.
Moon: Spellbound by the length of its horn and the beauty of its fins, many strange Trainers raise Goldeen and nothing but Goldeen.

Seaking
Sun: When the weather grows cold, its whole body flushes a deep red. This sight serves as a poetic reminder that autumn has arrived.
Moon: Trainers who are crazy for Seaking are divided into horn enthusiasts and fin enthusiasts. The two groups do not get along well.

Staryu
Sun: Large numbers of these Pokémon make their home at the seaside. At night, a strange red glow radiates from the center of their bodies.
Moon: This Pokémon gets nibbled on by Lumineon and others. Thanks to its red core, it regenerates fast, so it’s unconcerned by their snack attacks.

Starmie
Sun: Its shining core is thought to receive and transmit enigmatic signals. It has been known to cause headaches in those who approach it.
Moon: Its unusual body shape, reminiscent of abstract art, led local people to spread rumors that this Pokémon may be an invader from outer space.

Scyther
Sun: It confuses its prey with its quick, ninja-like movements. Then, in an instant, it cleaves them with its scythes.
Moon: While young, they live together deep in the mountains, training themselves in how to fight with their scythes and move at high speeds.

Electabuzz
Sun: Half of all sudden blackouts are caused by Electabuzz gathering at electric power plants and gobbling up electricity.
Moon: Electricity leaks from it in amounts far greater than the amount of electricity it eats.

Magmar
Sun: When it’s tired, it leaps into the mouth of a volcano and soaks its body in magma to ease its weariness. Its body burns at 2,192 degrees F.
Moon: When angered, it spouts brilliant fire from all over its body. It doesn’t calm down until its opponent has burned to ash.

Pinsir
Sun: It grips its prey in its pincers and splits them apart. Although it is a powerful Pokémon, it can’t deal with the cold.
Moon: One solid blow from its horns is enough to split apart a large tree. Its greatest rival in Alola is Vikavolt.

Mega Pinsir
Sun: The influence of Mega Evolution leaves it in a state of constant excitement. It pierces enemies with its two large horns before shredding them.
Moon: Bathed in the energy of Mega Evolution, its wings become unusually developed. It flies at speeds of approximately 30 mph.

Tauros
Sun: Historically, people in areas all over the world have ridden Tauros, but the practice is said to have started in Alola.
Moon: Although it’s known to be a fierce Pokémon, Tauros in the Alola region are said to possess a measure of calmness.

Magikarp
Sun: Although weak and helpless, this Pokémon is incredibly fertile. They exist in such multitudes, you’ll soon grow tired of seeing them.
Moon: Its reckless leaps make it easy pickings for predators. On the bright side, many Pokémon enjoy longer life spans, thanks to Magikarp.

Gyarados
Sun: A tale is told of a town that angered Gyarados. Before the sun rose the next day, flames utterly consumed the town, leaving not a trace behind.
Moon: There are people who swear that any place Gyarados appears is fated for destruction.

Mega Gyarados
Sun: Mega Evolution also affects its brain, leaving no other function except its destructive instinct to burn everything to cinders.
Moon: It jets water from the orifices on its sides, streaking above the water surface at supersonic speed.

Lapras
Sun: Its high intelligence enables it to comprehend human speech. When it’s in a good mood, it sings in its beautiful voice.
Moon: These Pokémon were once near extinction due to poaching. Following protective regulations, there is now an overabundance of them.

Ditto
Sun: It can reorganize its cells to make itself into a duplicate of anything it sees. The quality of the duplicate depends on the individual.
Moon: With its astonishing capacity for metamorphosis, it can get along with anything. It does not get along well with its fellow Ditto.

Eevee
Sun: Possessing an unbalanced and unstable genetic makeup, it conceals many possible evolutions.
Moon: Current studies show it can evolve into an incredible eight different species of Pokémon.

Vaporeon
Sun: Its cells are composed of units much like water molecules. It lives close to water and is often mistaken for a mermaid.
Moon: Blending in with the water and erasing all signs of its presence, it patiently waits for its prey, fish Pokémon.

Jolteon
Sun: They send out electrical charges of about 10,000 volts. Because they are high-strung, it can be difficult to grow close to them.
Moon: When its fur stands on end, that’s a sign it’s about to give off a jolt of electricity. Take care, as sometimes lightning strikes next to it, too.

Flareon
Sun: When it catches prey or finds berries, it breathes fire on them until they’re well done, and then it gobbles them up.
Moon: Its average body temperature is between 1,300 and 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. In its internal flame sac, temperatures reach 3,000 degrees.

Porygon
Sun: Roughly 20 years ago, it was artificially created, utilizing the latest technology of the time.
Moon: It can convert its body into digital data, which enables it to enter cyberspace.

Aerodactyl
Sun: A Pokémon from the age of the dinosaurs. It used its sawlike fangs to shred its prey before eating them.
Moon: In ancient times, it ruled the skies. A widely accepted theory is that it went extinct due to a large meteor impact.

Mega Aerodactyl
Sun: Part of its body has become stone. Some scholars claim that this is Aerodactyl’s true appearance.
Moon: When it Mega Evolves, it becomes more vicious than ever before. Some say that’s because its excess of power is causing it pain.

Snorlax
Sun: Its stomach is said to be incomparably strong. Even Muk’s poison is nothing more than a hint of spice on Snorlax’s tongue.
Moon: It eats nearly 900 pounds of food every day. It starts nodding off while eating—and continues to eat even while it’s asleep.

Dratini
Sun: It grows by molting repeatedly. Boots made from the tanned cast-off skin are a super luxury item.
Moon: After a 10-hour struggle, a fisherman was able to pull one up and confirm its existence.

Dragonair
Sun: It has long been thought that its crystalline orbs are imbued with the power to control the weather.
Moon: From time immemorial, it has been venerated by agricultural peoples as an entity able to control the weather.

Dragonite
Sun: This Pokémon saved a shipwrecked man, taking him to a remote island—a paradise occupied solely by Dragonite.
Moon: Incur the wrath of this normally calm Pokémon at your peril, because it will smash everything to smithereens before it’s satisfied.

Ledyba
Sun: They are timid and grow uneasy when not in a swarm with others of their kind. The pattern on their backs differs slightly from one to another.
Moon: They communicate with one another using bodily fluids that give off odors. When they’re angry, their odor smells sour.

Ledian
Sun: While it’s believed that starlight provides it with energy, this Pokémon also loves to eat berries. In the daytime, it curls up in the grass to sleep.
Moon: In battle, it throws punches with all four arms. The power of each individual blow is piddly, so it aims to win by quantity rather than quality.

Spinarak
Sun: It waits intently until its preferred prey, Cutiefly, gets caught in its web. In fact, it’s quite a patient Pokémon.
Moon: Some fishermen weave its sturdy thread into nets to catch fish Pokémon.

Ariados
Sun: There are some areas where people use the string Ariados spins for their own weaving. The resulting cloth is popular for its strength.
Moon: It spins thread from both its rear and its mouth. Then it wraps its prey up in thread and sips their bodily fluids at its leisure.

Crobat
Sun: Both its legs became wings, and as a result, it can’t move well on the ground. All it can do is crawl around.
Moon: Silent and swift in its four-winged flight, it bites down on its prey before they realize what’s happening. In a heartbeat, it drains their blood.

Chinchou
Sun: Its two antennae were originally fins. It discharges electricity to stun its prey before attacking.
Moon: It lives in the depths beyond the reach of sunlight. It flashes lights on its antennae to communicate with others of its kind.

Lanturn
Sun: Should you peer into the ocean at night and see a light shining like the stars, that is Lanturn.
Moon: This Pokémon flashes a bright light that blinds its prey. This creates an opening for it to deliver an electrical attack.

Pichu
Sun: It is not yet skilled at controlling electricity. If you take your eyes off it, it may shock itself.
Moon: Despite this Pokémon’s cute appearance, those who want to live with one should prepare to be on the receiving end of its electric jolts.

Cleffa
Sun: On late nights illuminated by shooting stars, it gazes intently skyward, as if thinking of its home.
Moon: Because of its silhouette, it’s believed to be a star reborn. For some reason, it loves Minior.

Igglybuff
Sun: It likes to sing but is not yet good at it. With praise and encouragement, it will get better little by little.
Moon: It moves by bouncing along. As it moves a lot, it sweats, and its body gives off a sweet aroma.

Sudowoodo
Sun: To avoid attack, it mimics a tree. It will run off if splashed with water, which it hates.
Moon: Apparently, the larger the green parts of this Pokémon, the more collectors value it. It’s a particular favorite among elderly people.

Politoed
Sun: They gather on moonlit nights to form a large chorus. Their cries sound angry and not at all pleasant, but they are certainly distinctive.
Moon: It’s the leader of Poliwag and Poliwhirl. When Politoed roars, they all cower in fear.

Espeon
Sun: It can instantaneously sense its opponent’s movements by feeling air currents with its fine fur.
Moon: It unleashes psychic power from the orb on its forehead. When its power is exhausted, the orb grows dull and dark.

Umbreon
Sun: When this Pokémon becomes angry, its pores secrete a poisonous sweat, which it sprays at its opponent’s eyes.
Moon: With its black fur, it blends into the darkness. It bides its time, and when prey appears, this Pokémon goes for its throat, and then eats it.

Murkrow
Sun: They awaken at dusk and take wing in the twilight, leading to the expression, “Get home before the Murkrow fly.”
Moon: Seen as a symbol of bad luck, it’s generally disliked. Yet it gives presents—objects that sparkle or shine—to Trainers it’s close to.

Slowking
Sun: A poisonous bite reacted with its system, blessing it with the enhanced intellect of a genius. It has full control of its psychic powers.
Moon: This Pokémon is so famed for its intellect that a proverb still persists in some regions: “When in doubt, ask Slowking.”

Misdreavus
Sun: It will use any means necessary to frighten people and absorb their life energy. It practices constantly to hone its skill in causing fear.
Moon: If you hear a sobbing sound emanating from a vacant room, it’s undoubtedly a bit of mischief from Misdreavus.

Snubbull
Sun: Despite its intimidating face, it’s quite cowardly. Its desperate attempts to appear threatening make it popular with people.
Moon: Its growls make its opponents uneasy. This laid-back Pokémon tends to sleep half the day.

Granbull
Sun: Its well-developed lower jaw and heavy fangs are its weapons. As long as it’s not provoked, it rarely bites.
Moon: More timid than Snubbull, this Pokémon is doted on by young people amused at the contrast between its looks and its attitude.

Scizor
Sun: It uses its wings to adjust its body temperature. Otherwise, its metal body would become too hot and melt in the heat of battle.
Moon: Once it has identified an enemy, this Pokémon smashes it mercilessly with pincers hard as steel.

Mega Scizor
Sun: The excess energy that bathes this Pokémon keeps it in constant danger of overflow. It can’t sustain a battle over long periods of time.
Moon: Due to the effects of Mega Evolution, its pincers have taken on a more diabolical form, ripping anything they pinch to shreds.

Sneasel
Sun: It has a cunning yet savage disposition. It waits for parents to leave their nests, and then it sneaks in to steal their eggs.
Moon: It uses its claws to poke holes in eggs so it can slurp out the insides. Breeders consider it a scourge and will drive it away or eradicate it.

Corsola
Sun: Coral branches grow from its head. They break off quite easily, but they grow back in about three days.
Moon: Pursued by Mareanie for the branches on its head, this Pokémon will sometimes snap its own branches off as a diversion while it escapes.

Delibird
Sun: Although it naturally prefers colder locales, Delibird in Alola seem able to withstand the heat to a certain extent.
Moon: It has a generous habit of sharing its food with people and Pokémon, so it’s always scrounging around for more food.

Skarmory
Sun: Its feathers, which fall off as it grows, are thin and sharp. In times long past, warriors used them as swords.
Moon: Its metal body is sturdy, but it does rust rather easily. So on rainy days, this Pokémon prefers to stay put in its nest.

Porygon2
Sun: For the purposes of planetary development, Porygon was updated with the most cutting-edge technology available.
Moon: Porygon was updated to a new version in readiness for planetary development. But that dream remains unrealized as yet.

Smeargle
Sun: The unique creations produced by each Smeargle are painted using the fluid that oozes from its tail. This is how it marks its territory.
Moon: It draws symbols all over the place to mark its territory. In towns with many Smeargle, the walls are covered in graffiti.

Elekid
Sun: When it’s in a house, electrical outlets serve as its baby bottles. It sucks down electricity.
Moon: This Pokémon is constantly fighting with Togedemaru that try to steal its electricity. It’s a pretty even match.

Magby
Sun: Many of these Pokémon can be seen in areas with volcanic activity. Feeding can get them so excited, they exhale flames of 1,100 degrees F.
Moon: A famous potter lives with a Magby. Apparently its soft flames produce fine works.

Miltank
Sun: Its milk is high in calories and packed with nutrients. Therefore, if you drink too much of it, you may wind up with a body like Miltank’s.
Moon: Most people raise it for its milk, but it’s quite tough and strong, so it’s also well suited for battle.

Blissey
Sun: Even the most ferocious Pokémon become calm when they eat Blissey’s egg, which is said to be filled with happiness.
Moon: Its fluffy fur coat acts as a sensor, enabling it to read the feelings of people and Pokémon.

Wingull
Sun: Its hollow bones enhance its lightness. It spreads its wings to the wind and soars away into the sky.
Moon: Fishermen keep an eye out for Wingull in the sky, because wherever they’re circling, the ocean is sure to be teeming with fish Pokémon.

Pelipper
Sun: Its spacious beak is large enough for a small child to fit right inside.
Moon: Gathering food is the work of young males. They store food in their capacious beaks and carry it back to others waiting in the nest.

Surskit
Sun: It moves as if skating on the surface of the water. It often fights with Dewpider over food.
Moon: When this Pokémon senses danger, a sweet fluid oozes from the tip of its head. The taste of it disgusts bird Pokémon.

Masquerain
Sun: It intimidates enemies with the eye-like patterns on its antennae. Its four wings allow it to fly in any direction.
Moon: Its wings and antennae don’t cope well with moisture. After a rain, it faces sunward to dry off.

Makuhita
Sun: It was originally brought in from another region, but now Makuhita from Alola are more famous.
Moon: Their daily routine consists of training together first thing in the morning, eating and napping in the afternoon, and then more training afterward.

Hariyama
Sun: It is known for its fantastic strength, but as it grows older, it focuses more on training Makuhita.
Moon: They love to compare their freakish strength—strength enough to send a truck flying with a single slap.

Nosepass
Sun: The magnet in Nosepass’s nose provides an unerring compass, making it an excellent partner for Trainers going on a journey.
Moon: It uses powerful magnetism to drag its prey toward it. It’s also been known to pull in metal, which it collects and uses to protect itself.

Sableye
Sun: It’s a fiend for gemstones, so it stalks Carbink. Unfortunately, Gabite almost always grabs them first.
Moon: This Pokémon is feared. When its gemstone eyes begin to glow with a sinister shine, it’s believed that Sableye will steal people’s spirits away.

Mega Sableye
Sun: The jewel from its chest, which has grown gigantic due to the effects of Mega Evolution, can turn back any attack.
Moon: Supporting a giant heavy jewel, it can’t change direction very nimbly and is vulnerable to attack from behind.

Carvanha
Sun: Each school has its own territory. Any intruders are mercilessly attacked with fangs bared.
Moon: If they scent the faintest trace of blood, they rush to attack en masse. When alone, they’re rather cowardly.

Sharpedo
Sun: It pursues its prey at speeds of 75 mph and finishes them off with fangs that can crush iron. It is known as the bully of the sea.
Moon: It has a sad history. In the past, its dorsal fin was a treasured foodstuff, so this Pokémon became a victim of overfishing.

Mega Sharpedo
Sun: The spines sprouting from its head are transformed fangs. If they’re injured or broken off, the spines will regenerate countless times.
Moon: As a consequence of Mega Evolution, its combative instincts exploded. The yellow marks it bears are scars from a long history of battles.

Wailmer
Sun: It loves to startle people. It fills itself up with seawater and plays by bouncing around like a ball.
Moon: It shows off by spraying jets of seawater from the nostrils above its eyes. It eats a solid ton of Wishiwashi every day.

Wailord
Sun: Wailord pursue their prey in pods. With their large mouths, they can swallow entire schools of Wishiwashi whole.
Moon: Its immense size is the reason for its popularity. Wailord watching is a favorite sightseeing activity in various parts of the world.

Torkoal
Sun: Coal is the source of Torkoal’s energy. Large amounts of coal can be found in the mountains where they live.
Moon: If the fire burning within its shell goes out, it will die. Those who wish to raise one in their home must always keep something flammable at hand.

Spinda
Sun: Its steps are staggering and unsteady, but Spinda thinks it’s walking in a straight line.
Moon: Each and every Spinda has a slightly different configuration of spots. There are collectors who enjoy the tiny differences in their spot patterns.

Trapinch
Sun: It can live for a week without eating a thing. It waits patiently at the bottom of its nest for prey to appear.
Moon: As it digs through the sand, its giant jaws crush any rocks that obstruct its path. It builds a funnel-shaped nest.

Vibrava
Sun: Rather than using its underdeveloped wings for flight, it rubs them together, producing ultrasonic waves to attack its enemies.
Moon: To help make its wings grow, it dissolves quantities of prey in its digestive juices and guzzles them down every day.

Flygon
Sun: The flapping of its wings sounds something like singing. Those lured by the sound are enveloped in a sandstorm, becoming Flygon’s prey.
Moon: This Pokémon hides in the heart of sandstorms it creates and seldom appears where people can see it.

Barboach
Sun: Its two whiskers provide a sensitive radar. Even in muddy waters, it can detect its prey’s location.
Moon: Its slippery body is hard to grasp, so much so that there are festivals where people compete to see how many they can catch barehanded.

Whiscash
Sun: A glutton that devours anything that moves, it quietly lurks at the bottom of swamps, lying in wait for prey.
Moon: Sighting Whiscash leaping from the water is believed to herald an earthquake.

Feebas
Sun: A tough Pokémon that is perfectly fine even in dirty water. However, due to its ragged, shabby appearance, it isn’t popular.
Moon: Although unattractive and unpopular, this Pokémon’s marvelous vitality has made it a subject of research.

Milotic
Sun: Milotic has provided inspiration to many artists. It has even been referred to as the most beautiful Pokémon of all.
Moon: It lives at the bottom of clear lakes. In times of war, it shows itself, which soothes people’s minds and hearts.

Castform
Sun: It changes its form depending on the weather. Changes in the temperature or humidity appear to affect its cellular structure.
Moon: Its form changes on its own, due to its cells’ sensitive reactions to temperature and humidity.

Castform (Sunny Form)
Sun: This is the form Castform takes on the brightest of days. Its skin is unexpectedly hot to the touch, so approach with care.
Moon: This is Castform’s form when basking in fair weather. Its body is warm and toasty.

Castform (Rainy Form)
Sun: This is the form Castform takes when soaked with rain. When its body is compressed, water will seep out as if from a sponge.
Moon: This is Castform’s form during a downpour of rain. Its body retains moisture and gets slippery.

Castform (Snowy Form)
Sun: This is the form Castform takes when covered in snow. Its body becomes an ice-like material, with a temperature near 23 degrees Fahrenheit.
Moon: This is Castform’s form when caught in a hailstorm. Its cold skin is as smooth as ice.

Absol
Sun: Long ago, superstitions were spread about it, saying it brought disaster. This fed a hatred of it, and it was driven deep into the mountains.
Moon: Although it’s said to bring disaster, in actuality, this Pokémon possesses a calm disposition and warns people of any crises that loom.

Mega Absol
Sun: When this Pokémon whips the winglike fur on its back as though beating its wings, it sends an intimidating aura flying at its opponents.
Moon: As the energy of Mega Evolution fills it, its fur bristles. What you see on its back are not true wings, and this Pokémon isn’t able to fly.

Snorunt
Sun: Their numbers seem to have rapidly increased in Alola. Custom has it that houses where Snorunt live will be prosperous for generations to come.
Moon: It can only survive in cold areas. It bounces happily around, even in environments as cold as -150 degrees Fahrenheit.

Glalie
Sun: Legend says a boulder on an icy mountain absorbed the distress and regrets of a stranded mountaineer, giving rise to Glalie.
Moon: Its prey is instantaneously frozen stiff by the cold air it exhales from its huge mouth. While they’re in that frozen state, it gobbles them up.

Mega Glalie
Sun: The excess energy from Mega Evolution spilled over from its mouth, breaking its jaw. It spews endless blizzards.
Moon: It envelops prey in its mouth, freezing them instantly. But its jaw is dislocated, so it’s unable to eat them.

Relicanth
Sun: Its form has remained the same for one hundred million years. Its body is filled with fat, so it can withstand the water pressure of the deep sea.
Moon: It was fortuitously discovered during a deep sea expedition. Its teeth have atrophied, so it now survives on microscopic organisms it sucks up.

Luvdisc
Sun: If a Luvdisc is left on its own, it becomes despondent, leaving itself open to attack. That is when Pelipper snatch them up.
Moon: Loving couples have a soft spot for this Pokémon, so honeymoon hotels often release this Pokémon into their pools.

Bagon
Sun: Its belief that it will be able to fly one day is apparently the influence of information carried in its genes.
Moon: With its steel-hard stone head, it headbutts indiscriminately. This is because of the stress it feels at being unable to fly.

Shelgon
Sun: The cells within its shell transform with explosive speed, preparing it for evolution.
Moon: They lurk deep within caves—motionless, neither eating nor drinking. Why they don’t die is not known.

Salamence
Sun: When angered, it loses all sense of itself and destroys everything around it. The destruction will continue until Salamence has tired itself out.
Moon: It flies around on its wings, which have grown in at last. In its happiness, it gushes hot flames, burning up the fields it passes over.

Mega Salamence
Sun: Anyone standing in its path gets sliced right in two, while this Pokémon continues its flight without interruption.
Moon: Mega Evolution fuels its brutality, and it may even turn on the Trainer who raised it. It’s been dubbed “the blood-soaked crescent.”

Beldum
Sun: Its cells are all magnets. It uses magnetism to communicate with others of its kind.
Moon: With magnetic traction, it pulls its opponents in close. When they’re in range, it slashes them with its rear claws.

Metang
Sun: When two Beldum link together, their psychic power is doubled. Their intelligence, however, remains unchanged.
Moon: It adores magnetic minerals, so it pursues Nosepass at speeds exceeding 60 mph.

Metagross
Sun: It firmly pins its prey using its four claws and large body. Then the teeth in the mouth on its stomach chew the prey to bits.
Moon: A linkage of two Metang, this Pokémon can perform any calculation in a flash by utilizing parallel processing in its four brains.

Mega Metagross
Sun: This form results from one Metagross, one Metang, and two Beldum linking up.
Moon: Mega Evolution stimulated its brain. It emerged as a ruthless Pokémon that will clutch at any means of ensuring its victories.

Cranidos
Sun: It lived in jungles around a hundred million years ago. It used its skillful headbutts to combat Aerodactyl.
Moon: In rock layers where Cranidos fossils are found, the fossilized trunks of trees snapped in two are also often found.

Rampardos
Sun: The result of repeated headbutts is a skull grown thick and hard. However, its brain has shrunk in size compared with Cranidos’s.
Moon: Records exist of a revived fossil that evolved into Rampardos. It proceeded to escape and then destroy a skyscraper with a headbutt.

Shieldon
Sun: Many fossils of this Pokémon have been found, but almost none have shown signs of damage to the face.
Moon: This Pokémon lived in primeval jungles. Few enemies would have been willing to square off against its heavily armored face, so it’s thought.

Bastiodon
Sun: While it can guard against any sort of attack from the front, it is left without recourse when attacked from behind.
Moon: It lived in the same environments as Rampardos. Their fossils have been found together—seemingly from after they’d fought to the finish.

Shellos (West Sea)
Sun: For the most part, it makes its home along the seashore. Its color and form differ according to its habitat and the quality of its food.
Moon: Purple mucus sticks to the hands of anyone who touches it. Take care, as the substance is troublesome to wash off.

Shellos (East Sea)
Sun: Shellos lives in the sea and feasts on plankton. The lovelier the ocean where Shellos resides, the more vibrant its color becomes.
Moon: The difference in color from one Shellos to another seems to be a result of their diet. No large changes can be seen in their capabilities.

Gastrodon (West Sea)
Sun: It has strong regenerative capabilities. Even if parts of it are bitten off by fish Pokémon, it will return to normal within a few hours.
Moon: Plankton, invisible to the naked eye, is its main food source. It comes onto the land periodically, but the reason for this is not known.

Gastrodon (East Sea)
Sun: A team of researchers is scouring the oceans of the world in search of a Gastrodon in a color never seen before.
Moon: Experiments are being conducted to discover what happens when a Gastrodon is raised in a location other than the sea where it was born.

Drifloon
Sun: Stories go that it grabs the hands of small children and drags them away to the afterlife. It dislikes heavy children.
Moon: If for some reason its body bursts, its soul spills out with a screaming sound.

Drifblim
Sun: There was once an incident in which a man took a trip riding a Drifblim, only to go missing.
Moon: Even while under careful observation, large flocks of Drifblim flying at dusk will inexplicably disappear from view.

Mismagius
Sun: It appears as if from nowhere—muttering incantations, placing curses, and giving people terrifying visions.
Moon: Mismagius have been known to cast spells to make people fall in love, so some people search for this Pokémon as if their life depended on it.

Honchkrow
Sun: A single cry from this nocturnal Pokémon, and more than a hundred of its Murkrow cronies will assemble.
Moon: If its Murkrow cronies fail to catch food for it, or if it feels they have betrayed it, it will hunt them down wherever they are and punish them.

Bonsly
Sun: It does not deal well with water, so it lives in dry locales. Since its surroundings tend to lack greenery, it stands out noticeably.
Moon: From its eyes, it can expel excess moisture from its body. This liquid is similar in composition to human sweat.

Happiny
Sun: It carries a round white rock in its belly pouch. If it gets along well with someone, it will sometimes give that person the rock.
Moon: It’s too small to lay eggs yet. As a surrogate, it searches out round white stones.

Gible
Sun: It lives in caves warmed by geothermal heat. Even so, when the weather gets cold, it will huddle close with others of its kind.
Moon: It skulks in caves, and when prey or an enemy passes by, it leaps out and chomps them. The force of its attack sometimes chips its teeth.

Gabite
Sun: In rare cases, it molts and sheds its scales. Medicine containing its scales as an ingredient will make a weary body feel invigorated.
Moon: Shiny objects are its passion. It can be found in its cave, scarcely moving, its gaze fixed on the jewels it’s amassed or Carbink it has caught.

Garchomp
Sun: It can fly at speeds rivaling jet planes. It dives into flocks of bird Pokémon and gulps the entire flock down whole.
Moon: The protuberances on its head serve as sensors. It can even detect distant prey.

Mega Garchomp
Sun: Excess energy melted its arms and wings, transforming them into giant scythes.
Moon: Its vaunted wings become scythes, sending it mad with rage. It swings its scythes wildly and slices the ground to pieces.

Munchlax
Sun: It needs to consume its own weight in food every day. As far as flavor is concerned, it’s indifferent.
Moon: When it finds something that looks like it might be edible, it goes right ahead and swallows it whole. That’s why it gets fatter day by day.

Riolu
Sun: It can discern the physical and emotional states of people, Pokémon, and other natural things from the shape of their aura waves.
Moon: It’s tough enough to run right through the night, and it’s also a hard worker, but it’s still just a youngster.

Lucario
Sun: Not only does it perceive auras, but it has also gained the power to control them. It employs them in battle.
Moon: They can detect the species of a living being—and its emotions—from over half a mile away. They control auras and hunt their prey in packs.

Mega Lucario
Sun: Black streaks all over its body show where its auras and the energy of Mega Evolution intermingled and raced through it.
Moon: It readies itself to face its enemies by focusing its mental energies. Its fighting style can be summed up in a single word: heartless.

Finneon
Sun: It absorbs sunlight with the pink areas of its skin, which then shine. This appears to be a form of camouflage.
Moon: Its double tail fins propel its energetic jumps. When it breaks the surface of the sea, Wingull swoop down to grab it on the fly.

Lumineon
Sun: With its shining light, it lures its prey close. However, the light also happens to attract ferocious fish Pokémon—its natural predators.
Moon: This deep-sea Pokémon lives at the bottom of the sea. Its fins haul it over the seabed in search of its favorite food—Starmie.

Weavile
Sun: They travel in groups of four or five, leaving signs for one another on trees and rocks. They bring down their prey with coordinated attacks.
Moon: They dwell in cold places. This Pokémon’s main food source in Alola is Vulpix and Sandshrew, which they carefully divide among their group.

Magnezone
Sun: Three units generate magnetism. There have been many mistaken reports of UFO sightings when Magnezone flies through the night sky.
Moon: As it zooms through the sky, this Pokémon seems to be receiving signals of unknown origin, while transmitting signals of unknown purpose.

Electivire
Sun: It pushes the tips of its tails against its foes and then lets loose a high-voltage current. Its foes are burned to a crisp in an instant.
Moon: When it gets excited, it thumps its chest. With every thud, thunder roars and electric sparks shower all around.

Magmortar
Sun: They dwell in volcanic craters. According to what is known, a single pair of male and female Magmortar lives in one volcano.
Moon: From its arm, it launches fireballs hotter than 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit. Its arm starts to melt when it fires a whole barrage.

Leafeon
Sun: Its cellular composition is closer to that of a plant than an animal. It uses photosynthesis to produce its energy supply without eating food.
Moon: The younger they are, the more they smell like fresh grass. With age, their fragrance takes on the odor of fallen leaves.

Glaceon
Sun: It can control its body temperature at will. This enables it to freeze the moisture in the atmosphere, creating flurries of diamond dust.
Moon: It freezes its fur into icicles, spiky and sharp, and tackles its prey.

Porygon-Z
Sun: In order to create a more advanced Pokémon, an additional program was installed, but apparently it contained a defect that makes it move oddly.
Moon: Its program was modified to facilitate extra-dimensional activities, but that led to noticeably strange behavior.

Probopass
Sun: It radiates such a powerful magnetic field that nearby electrical appliances become unusable.
Moon: The main body controls three mobile units called Mini-Noses, which it maneuvers to catch prey.

Froslass
Sun: When it finds humans or Pokémon it likes, it freezes them and takes them to its chilly den, where they become decorations.
Moon: The soul of a woman lost on a snowy mountain possessed an icicle, becoming this Pokémon. The food it most relishes is the souls of men.

Lillipup
Sun: Because it doesn’t yelp, it’s extremely popular with Trainers who live in apartment buildings.
Moon: The long fur surrounding its face functions as radar, enabling it to probe the condition of its battle opponents.

Herdier
Sun: Its dense black fur grows continuously. The high cost of keeping its hard fur properly groomed makes this a troublesome Pokémon to train.
Moon: This Pokémon obeys its master’s orders faithfully. However, it refuses to listen to anything said by a person it doesn’t respect.

Stoutland
Sun: Intelligent, good-natured, and valiant, it’s a trustworthy partner on rescue teams.
Moon: With this wise Pokémon, there could be no concern that it would ever attack people. Some parents even trust it to babysit.

Roggenrola
Sun: Born deep within the ground, it compares itself with similar species, such as Geodude and Carbink, to settle which has the hardest body.
Moon: The hexagonal cavity is its ear. It walks in the direction of sounds it hears, but if the sounds cease, it panics and topples over.

Boldore
Sun: Its orange crystal is a mass of energy. Just one crystal fragment would provide enough fuel for a hundred dump trucks.
Moon: It explores caves in search of underground water. It’s not comfortable around water, so this Pokémon takes great care in lapping it up.

Gigalith
Sun: The blasts of energy it makes from sunbeams have terrifying power. However, it’s not able to fire its blasts at night or on rainy days.
Moon: Known for its hefty horsepower, this Pokémon is a popular partner for construction workers.

Cottonee
Sun: When it finds others of its kind, they all stick together. When enough of them have collected, the mass resembles a cumulonimbus cloud.
Moon: Pillows and beds stuffed with cotton exhaled by Cottonee are soft and puffy, light and airy—altogether top quality.

Whimsicott
Sun: It rides on the wind and slips into people’s homes. After it has turned a room into a cotton-filled mess, it giggles to itself and takes off.
Moon: This Pokémon appears, riding upon the wind. But if the wind gusts up, it’ll blow the cotton on this Pokémon’s head clean off.

Petilil
Sun: Although the leaves on its head are bitter enough to cause dizziness, they provide relief from weariness—even more so when boiled.
Moon: By pruning the leaves on its head with regularity, this Pokémon can be grown into a fine plump shape.

Lilligant
Sun: No matter how much time and money is spent raising it, its flowers are the most beautiful when they bloom in the wild.
Moon: As soon as it finds a male to be its partner, the beautiful flower on its head darkens, droops, and withers away.

Sandile
Sun: It submerges itself in sand and moves as if swimming. This wise behavior keeps its enemies from finding it and maintains its temperature.
Moon: It conceals itself in the sand and chomps down on the legs of any prey that unwarily walk over it. Its favorite food is Trapinch.

Krokorok
Sun: They move in groups of a few individuals. A female is often the leader of the group, and the males will gather food.
Moon: Thanks to the special membrane covering its eyes, it can see its surroundings clearly, even in the middle of the night.

Krookodile
Sun: Its unique faculty of sight can detect small prey more than 30 miles away, even in the midst of a sandstorm.
Moon: After clamping down with its powerful jaws, it twists its body around to rip its prey in half.

Tirtouga
Sun: Based on studies of its skeletal structure, it can apparently dive to ocean depths of over half a mile.
Moon: Reputed to be the ancestor of most turtle Pokémon, it lived in warm seas approximately a hundred million years ago.

Carracosta
Sun: It constructed its sturdy shell by crunching and swallowing the hard shells or bones of its prey.
Moon: Active both on land and in the sea, this Pokémon drags its land-based prey into the water to finish it off.

Archen
Sun: It is the ancestor of all bird Pokémon. Archen itself could not actually fly but moved by hopping from treetop to treetop.
Moon: To all appearances flightless, it was able to glide down from tall treetops to snag its prey.

Archeops
Sun: Although apparently able to fly, they tended to run along the ground, averaging speeds of roughly 25 mph.
Moon: They hunted in flocks. When one Archeops had the prey cornered, another would swoop on it.

Trubbish
Sun: Unsanitary places are what they like best. They can be spotted in Alola, often with Grimer in hot pursuit.
Moon: It gorges on trash until its stomach is full. Then it belches toxic gas. An unlucky whiff of gas will put a person in the hospital.

Garbodor
Sun: Beware the poisonous liquid it shoots from its right arm. If even a little of it gets on you, you’ll experience the effects of the unidentified toxin.
Moon: For a time, their numbers increased explosively in Alola. Since the arrival of Grimer, their population has decreased dramatically.

Vanillite
Sun: Born of an icicle, this Pokémon uses its frosty breath to make ice crystals, causing snow to fall.
Moon: It feels pleasantly cool when embraced. This Pokémon is treasured by households in warm regions.

Vanillish
Sun: Hot days cause its body to melt. It can be restored by refreezing it, but the process leaves its body slightly warped.
Moon: This Pokémon has existed since the Ice Age. It controls particles of ice, freezes its opponents, and then shatters them with a headbutt.

Vanilluxe
Sun: Each of its two heads has a brain, and when they are in agreement, it attacks its enemies by exhaling a violent blizzard.
Moon: Even if it loses one of its heads, it can live relatively problem-free. It makes snow clouds inside its body.

Emolga
Sun: It glides using its cape-like membrane. Electrical energy scatters from it, shocking its friends and foes alike.
Moon: It grills berries and bug Pokémon with electric shocks and makes a meal of them. It usually nests in the holes gouged in trees by Pikipek.

Alomomola
Sun: It uses its special mucus to close the wounds of injured Pokémon. The reason for this behavior remains unknown.
Moon: They float upon the open sea. Many water Pokémon gather in the area around Alomomola.

Rufflet
Sun: They pick fights indiscriminately. They grow stronger and more powerful each time they faint or are injured.
Moon: With its sharp claws, this Pokémon pierces its prey, and then it pecks at them. Although it also consumes berries, it’s a carnivore at heart.

Braviary
Sun: With its brave disposition, it fears nothing—not even death. Ancient Alolan people respected it, referring to it as “the hero of the sky.”
Moon: It’s thought that people disturbed their habitats in the past, so Braviary banded together to fight back.

Vullaby
Sun: It protects its plump posterior with the bones of prey it has consumed. As it grows, it  replaces the bones.
Moon: It can’t fly yet and must wait until its wings have developed more. Since it’s still at a playful age, it hops around friskily.

Mandibuzz
Sun: They adorn themselves beautifully with bones. This is supposedly an effort to attract males, but no male Mandibuzz have ever been found.
Moon: It circles in the sky, keeping a keen eye out for Pokémon in a weakened state. Its choicest food is Cubone.

Fletchling
Sun: This amiable Pokémon is easy to train. But when battle is joined, it shows its ferocious side.
Moon: When it’s excited, its temperature can double, spiking hormone production in its body.

Fletchinder
Sun: From its beak, it fires embers at its prey. Once it has caught them, it grills them at high heat before feasting upon them.
Moon: It will not tolerate other Fletchinder entering its territory, which has a radius of several miles.

Talonflame
Sun: Its favorite foods are Wingull and Pikipek. It attacks with a powerful kick and grasps them firmly in its talons.
Moon: It zooms directly at its prey at flight speeds of close to 310 mph, while fiery embers scatter from gaps in its feathers.

Pancham
Sun: It grows up imitating the behavior of Pangoro, which it looks up to as a leader.
Moon: There’s no point to the leaf in its mouth, aside from an effort to look cool. It’s mischievous, so it’s not well suited to inexperienced Trainers.

Pangoro
Sun: It boasts superb physical strength. Those who wish to become Pangoro’s Trainer have no choice but to converse with their fists.
Moon: From the slight twitches of its bamboo leaf, it deduces its opponent’s movements. It’s eager to tussle but kindhearted toward its companions.

Sylveon
Sun: Its ribbonlike feelers give off an aura that weakens hostility in its prey, causing them to let down their guard. Then it attacks.
Moon: When this Pokémon sights its prey, it swirls its ribbonlike feelers as a distraction. A moment later, it pounces.

Carbink
Sun: Born from the high temperatures and pressures deep underground, it defends itself by firing beams from the jewel part of its body.
Moon: Although this Pokémon is not especially rare, its glittering, jewel-draped body draws attention from people.

Goomy
Sun: The weakest of all Dragon-type Pokémon, it’s unable to breathe if its skin dries out, so it sticks to shady places.
Moon: Its source of protection is its slimy, germ-laden mucous membrane. Anyone who touches it needs some thorough hand-washing.

Sliggoo
Sun: It has trouble drawing a line between friends and food. It will calmly try to melt and eat even those it gets along well with.
Moon: This Pokémon’s mucous can dissolve anything. Toothless, it sprays mucous on its prey. Once they’re nicely dissolved, it slurps them up.

Goodra
Sun: An amazingly friendly Pokémon, but if left to itself, loneliness overcomes it, and it oozes gooey tears.
Moon: It gets picked on because it’s meek. But then, whoever teased it gets to feel the full force of its horns and a good swatting from its thick tail.

Klefki
Sun: This even-tempered Pokémon has a habit of collecting keys. It will sneak into people’s homes to steal their keys.
Moon: It inserts its horn into chinks in metal, absorbing metal ions. For some reason, it collects keys.

Phantump
Sun: These Pokémon are stumps possessed by the spirits of children who died in the forest. Their cries sound like eerie screams.
Moon: According to legend, medicine to cure any illness can be made by plucking the green leaves on its head, brewing them, and boiling down the liquid.

Trevenant
Sun: This Pokémon is said to devour anyone daring to ravage the forest. To the creatures dwelling in the forest, it offers great kindness.
Moon: Through its roots, it exerts control over other trees. A deadly curse falls upon anyone cutting down trees in forests where Trevenant dwell.

Zygarde (50% Forme)
Sun: This is Zygarde’s form when it has gathered 50% of its cells. It wipes out all those who oppose it, showing not a shred of mercy.
Moon: It’s thought to be monitoring the ecosystem. There are rumors that even greater power lies hidden within it.

Zygarde (10% Forme)
Sun: Its sharp fangs make short work of finishing off its enemies, but it’s unable to maintain this body indefinitely. After a period of time, it falls apart.
Moon: This is Zygarde’s form when about 10% of its cells have been gathered. It runs across the land at speeds greater than 60 mph.

Zygarde (Complete Forme)
Sun: This is Zygarde’s form at times when it uses its overwhelming power to suppress those who endanger the ecosystem.
Moon: This is Zygarde’s 100% form. It has enough power to overwhelm even Xerneas or Yveltal.

Rowlet
Sun: This wary Pokémon uses photosynthesis to store up energy during the day, while becoming active at night.
Moon: Silently it glides, drawing near its targets. Before they even notice it, it begins to pelt them with vicious kicks.

Dartrix
Sun: A bit of a dandy, it spends its free time preening its wings. Its preoccupation with any dirt on its plumage can leave it unable to battle.
Moon: It throws sharp feathers called blade quills at enemies or prey. It seldom misses.

Decidueye
Sun: It fires arrow quills from its wings with such precision, they can pierce a pebble at distances over a hundred yards.
Moon: Although basically cool and cautious, when it’s caught by surprise, it’s seized by panic.

Litten
Sun: While grooming itself, it builds up fur inside its stomach. It sets the fur alight and spews fiery attacks, which change based on how it coughs.
Moon: It doesn’t allow its emotions to be easily seen. Earning its trust takes time. It prefers solitude.

Torracat
Sun: At its throat, it bears a bell of fire. The bell rings brightly whenever this Pokémon spits fire.
Moon: It boasts powerful front legs. With a single punch, it can bend an iron bar right over.

Incineroar
Sun: This Pokémon has a violent, selfish disposition. If it’s not in the mood to listen, it will ignore its Trainer’s orders with complete nonchalance.
Moon: After hurling ferocious punches and flinging furious kicks, it finishes opponents off by spewing fire from around its navel.

Popplio
Sun: This Pokémon snorts body fluids from its nose, blowing balloons to smash into its foes. It’s famous for being a hard worker.
Moon: This Pokémon can control water bubbles. It practices diligently so it can learn to make big bubbles.

Brionne
Sun: A skillful dancer, it creates a sequence of water balloons as it dances, and briskly bombards its enemies.
Moon: It cares deeply for its companions. When its Trainer is feeling down, it performs a cheery dance to try and help.

Primarina
Sun: It controls its water balloons with song. The melody is learned from others of its kind and is passed down from one generation to the next.
Moon: Its singing voice is its chief weapon in battle. This Pokémon’s Trainer must prioritize the daily maintenance of its throat at all costs.

Pikipek
Sun: It can peck at a rate of 16 times a second to drill holes in trees. It uses the holes for food storage and for nesting.
Moon: This Pokémon feeds on berries, whose leftover seeds become the ammunition for the attacks it fires off from its mouth.

Trumbeak
Sun: It eats berries and stores their seeds in its beak. When it encounters enemies or prey, it fires off all the seeds in a burst.
Moon: By bending its beak, it can produce a variety of calls and brand itself a noisy nuisance for its neighbors.

Toucannon
Sun: When it battles, its beak heats up. The temperature can easily exceed 212 degrees Fahrenheit, causing severe burns when it hits.
Moon: Within its beak, its internal gas ignites, explosively launching seeds with enough power to pulverize boulders.

Yungoos
Sun: With its sharp fangs, it will bite anything. It did not originally live in Alola but was imported from another region.
Moon: It wanders around in a never-ending search for food. At dusk, it collapses from exhaustion and falls asleep on the spot.

Gumshoos
Sun: When it finds a trace of its prey, it patiently stakes out the location...but it’s always snoozing by nightfall.
Moon: It adores having Rattata and Raticate for dinner, but as it’s diurnal, it never encounters them. This Pokémon boasts incredible patience.

Grubbin
Sun: Its strong jaw enables it to scrape trees and slurp out the sap. It normally lives underground.
Moon: They often gather near places frequented by electric Pokémon in order to avoid being attacked by bird Pokémon.

Charjabug
Sun: Its body is capable of storing electricity. On camping trips, people are grateful to have one around.
Moon: From the food it digests, it generates electricity, and it stores this energy in its electric sac.

Vikavolt
Sun: It zips around, on sharp lookout for an opening. It concentrates electrical energy within its large jaws and uses it to zap its enemies.
Moon: It produces electricity via an electrical organ in its abdomen. It overwhelms bird Pokémon with shocking beams of electrical energy.

Crabrawler
Sun: While guarding its weak points with its pincers, it looks for an opening and unleashes punches. When it loses, it foams at the mouth and faints.
Moon: It punches so much, its pincers often come off from overuse, but they grow back quickly. What little meat they contain is rich and delicious.

Crabominable
Sun: It aimed for the top but got lost and ended up on a snowy mountain. Being forced to endure the cold, this Pokémon evolved and grew fur.
Moon: It just throws punches indiscriminately. In times of desperation, it can lop off its own pincers and fire them like rockets.

Oricorio (Baile Style)
Sun: It beats its wings together to create fire. As it moves in the steps of its beautiful dance, it bathes opponents in intense flames.
Moon: This Oricorio has sipped red nectar. Its passionate dance moves cause its enemies to combust in both body and mind.

Oricorio (Pom-Pom Style)
Sun: This Oricorio has sipped bright yellow nectar. Its bright, cheerful dance melts the hearts of its enemies.
Moon: It creates an electric charge by rubbing its feathers together. It dances over to its enemies and delivers shocking electrical punches.

Oricorio (Pa'u Style)
Sun: This Oricorio relaxes by swaying gently. This increases its psychic energy, which it then fires at its enemies.
Moon: This Oricorio has sipped pink nectar. Its enemies’ hearts melt at the sight of its gently swaying hips.

Oricorio (Sensu Style)
Sun: This Oricorio has sipped purple nectar. Its elegant, attractive dance will send the minds and hearts of its enemies to another world.
Moon: It summons the dead with its dreamy dancing. From their malice, it draws power with which to curse its enemies.

Cutiefly
Sun: It feeds on the nectar and pollen of flowers. Because it’s able to sense auras, it can identify which flowers are about to bloom.
Moon: Myriads of Cutiefly flutter above the heads of people who have auras resembling those of flowers.

Ribombee
Sun: It rolls up pollen into puffs. It makes many different varieties, some used as food and others used in battle.
Moon: Some of Ribombee’s pollen puffs are highly nutritious. They are sometimes sold as supplements.

Rockruff
Sun: It’s considered to be a good Pokémon for beginners because of its friendliness, but its disposition grows rougher as it grows up.
Moon: This Pokémon has lived with people since times long ago. It can sense when its Trainer is in the dumps and will stick close by its Trainer’s side.

Lycanroc (Midday Form)
Sun: Its quick movements confuse its enemies. Well equipped with claws and fangs, it also uses the sharp rocks in its mane as weapons.
Moon: When properly raised from a young age, it will become a trustworthy partner that will absolutely never betray its Trainer.

Lycanroc (Midnight Form)
Sun: The more intimidating the opponent it faces, the more this Pokémon’s blood boils. It will attack with no regard for its own safety.
Moon: It goads its enemies into attacking, withstands the hits, and in return, delivers a headbutt, crushing their bones with its rocky mane.

Wishiwashi (Solo Form)
Sun: When it’s in trouble, its eyes moisten and begin to shine. The shining light attracts its comrades, and they stand together against their enemies.
Moon: It’s awfully weak and notably tasty, so everyone is always out to get it. As it happens, anyone trying to bully it receives a painful lesson.

Wishiwashi (School Form)
Sun: Weak Wishiwashi school together to concentrate their power. Their united force makes them the demon of the sea, feared near and far.
Moon: At their appearance, even Gyarados will flee. When they team up to use Water Gun, its power exceeds that of Hydro Pump.

Mareanie
Sun: It plunges the poison spike on its head into its prey. When the prey has weakened, Mareanie deals the finishing blow with its 10 tentacles.
Moon: It’s found crawling on beaches and seafloors. The coral that grows on Corsola’s head is as good as a five-star banquet to this Pokémon.

Toxapex
Sun: Toxapex crawls along the ocean floor on its 12 legs. It leaves a trail of Corsola bits scattered in its wake.
Moon: Those attacked by Toxapex’s poison will suffer intense pain for three days and three nights. Post-recovery, there will be some aftereffects.

Mudbray
Sun: The mud stuck to Mudbray’s hooves enhances its grip and its powerful running gait.
Moon: It has a stubborn, individualistic disposition. Eating dirt, making mud, and playing in the mire all form part of its daily routine.

Mudsdale
Sun: It spits a mud that provides resistance to both wind and rain, so the walls of old houses were often coated with it.
Moon: Its heavy, mud-covered kicks are its best means of attack, and it can reduce large trucks to scrap without breaking a sweat.

Dewpider
Sun: It crawls onto the land in search of food. Its water bubble allows it to breathe and protects its soft head.
Moon: When it comes across enemies or potential prey, this Pokémon smashes its water-bubble-covered head into them.

Araquanid
Sun: It delivers headbutts with the water bubble on its head. Small Pokémon get sucked into the bubble, where they drown.
Moon: Despite what its appearance suggests, it cares for others. If it finds vulnerable, weak Pokémon, it protectively brings them into its water bubble.

Fomantis
Sun: During the day, it sleeps and soaks up light. When night falls, it walks around looking for a safer place to sleep.
Moon: They give off a sweet and refreshing scent. Cutiefly often gather near the tall grass where Fomantis are hiding.

Lurantis
Sun: It requires a lot of effort to maintain Lurantis’s vivid coloring, but some collectors enjoy this work and treat it as their hobby.
Moon: It fires beams from its sickle-shaped petals. These beams are powerful enough to cleave through thick metal plates.

Morelull
Sun: It scatters spores that flicker and glow. Anyone seeing these lights falls into a deep slumber.
Moon: As it drowses the day away, it nourishes itself by sucking from tree roots. It wakens at the fall of night, wandering off in search of a new tree.

Shiinotic
Sun: Forests where Shiinotic live are treacherous to enter at night. People confused by its strange lights can never find their way home again.
Moon: It emits flickering spores that cause drowsiness. When its prey succumb to sleep, this Pokémon feeds on them by sucking in their energy.

Salandit
Sun: It burns its bodily fluids to create a poisonous gas. When its enemies become disoriented from inhaling the gas, it attacks them.
Moon: Volcanoes or dry, craggy places are its home. It emanates a sweet-smelling poisonous gas that attracts bug Pokémon, then attacks them.

Salazzle
Sun: For some reason, only females have been found. It creates a reverse harem of male Salandit that it lives with.
Moon: Filled with pheromones, its poisonous gas can be diluted to use in the production of luscious perfumes.

Stufful
Sun: Despite its adorable appearance, when it gets angry and flails about, its arms and legs could knock a pro wrestler sprawling.
Moon: A touch from anyone except a known friend sends it into a surging frenzy. It’s an incredibly dangerous Pokémon.

Bewear
Sun: This immensely dangerous Pokémon possesses overwhelming physical strength. Its habitat is generally off-limits.
Moon: This Pokémon has the habit of hugging its companions. Many Trainers have left this world after their spines were squashed by its hug.

Bounsweet
Sun: A delectable aroma pours from its body. They are often swallowed whole by Toucannon lured by that wafting deliciousness.
Moon: Although it’s too sugary for human consumption, Bounsweet’s sweat can be watered down into a juice with just the right amount of sweetness.

Steenee
Sun: The sepals on its head developed to protect its body. These are quite hard, so even if pecked by bird Pokémon, this Pokémon is totally fine.
Moon: This Pokémon is always bouncing around energetically. Other Pokémon are attracted by its lively appearance and pleasant aroma.

Tsareena
Sun: Its long, striking legs aren’t just for show but to be used to kick with skill. In victory, it shows off by kicking the defeated, laughing boisterously.
Moon: A Pokémon known for the beauty of its well-shaped legs, it sometimes appears as a mascot in advertisements for beauty salons.

Comfey
Sun: It attaches flowers to its highly nutritious vine. This revitalizes the flowers, and they give off an aromatic scent.
Moon: Baths prepared with the flowers from its vine have a relaxing effect, so this Pokémon is a hit with many people.

Oranguru
Sun: Known for its extreme intelligence, this Pokémon will look down on inexperienced Trainers, so it’s best suited to veteran Trainers.
Moon: Deep in the jungle, high in the lofty canopy, this Pokémon abides. On rare occasions, it shows up at the beach to match wits with Slowking.

Passimian
Sun: They form groups of roughly 20 individuals. Their mutual bond is remarkable—they will never let down a comrade.
Moon: They battle with hard berries for weapons. Their techniques are passed from the boss to the group, generation upon generation.

Wimpod
Sun: This Pokémon is a coward. As it desperately dashes off, the flailing of its many legs leaves a sparkling clean path in its wake.
Moon: Its habitat varies from beaches to seabeds. A natural scavenger, it will gleefully chow down on anything edible, no matter how rotten.

Golisopod
Sun: With a flashing slash of its giant sharp claws, it cleaves seawater—or even air—right in two.
Moon: It battles skillfully with its six arms, but spends most of its time peacefully meditating in caves deep beneath the sea.

Sandygast
Sun: Born from a sand mound playfully built by a child, this Pokémon embodies the grudges of the departed.
Moon: It takes control of anyone who puts a hand in its mouth. And so it adds to the accumulation of its sand-mound body.

Palossand
Sun: Possessed people controlled by this Pokémon transformed its sand mound into a castle. As it evolved, its power to curse grew ever stronger.
Moon: Buried beneath the castle are masses of dried-up bones from those whose vitality it has drained.

Pyukumuku
Sun: It lives in shallow seas, such as areas near a beach. It can eject its internal organs, which it uses to engulf its prey or battle enemies.
Moon: These Pokémon line the beaches. The sticky mucous that covers their bodies can be used to soothe sunburned skin. How convenient!

Type: Null
Sun: The heavy control mask it wears suppresses its intrinsic capabilities. This Pokémon has some hidden special power.
Moon: Due to the danger that this synthetic Pokémon may go on a rampage, it wears a control mask to restrain its power.

Silvally
Sun: Its trust in its partner is what awakens it. This Pokémon is capable of changing its type, a flexibility that is well displayed in battle.
Moon: Although its name was Type: Null at first, the boy who evolved it into this form gave it the name by which it is now known.

Silvally (Other types)
Sun: It destroyed its own control mask. It has become capable of changing its type by equipping special memories.
Moon: Upon awakening, its RKS System is activated. By employing specific memories, this Pokémon can adapt its type to confound its enemies.

Minior (Meteor Form)
Sun: Originally making its home in the ozone layer, it hurtles to the ground when the shell enclosing its body grows too heavy.
Moon: Strong impacts can knock it out of its shell. This Pokémon was born from mutated nanoparticles.

Minior (All Cores)
Sun: It eats dust in the atmosphere. The composition of the dust determines the color of its core.
Moon: If its core stays exposed, it will soon die off. It’s possible that it may survive if it’s put into a Poké Ball quickly enough.

Komala
Sun: It is born asleep, and it dies asleep. All its movements are apparently no more than the results of it tossing and turning in its dreams.
Moon: The log it holds was given to it by its parents at birth. It has also been known to cling to the arm of a friendly Trainer.

Turtonator
Sun: The shell on its back is chemically unstable and explodes violently if struck. The hole in its stomach is its weak point.
Moon: It gushes fire and poisonous gases from its nostrils. Its dung is an explosive substance and can be put to various uses.

Togedemaru
Sun: The spiny fur on its back is normally at rest. When this Pokémon becomes agitated, its fur stands on end and stabs into its attackers.
Moon: The long hairs on its back act as lightning rods. The bolts of lightning it attracts are stored as energy in its electric sac.

Mimikyu (Disguised Form)
Sun: Its actual appearance is unknown. A scholar who saw what was under its rag was overwhelmed by terror and died from the shock.
Moon: A lonely Pokémon, it conceals its terrifying appearance beneath an old rag so it can get closer to people and other Pokémon.

Mimikyu (Busted Form)
Sun: After going to all the effort of disguising itself, its neck was broken. Whatever is inside is probably unharmed, but it’s still feeling sad.
Moon: If its neck is broken or its rag torn during an attack, it works through the night to patch it.

Bruxish
Sun: When it unleashes its psychic power from the protuberance on its head, the grating sound of grinding teeth echoes through the area.
Moon: It stuns its prey with psychokinesis and then grinds them to mush with its strong teeth. Even Shellder’s shell is no match for it.

Drampa
Sun: It has a compassionate personality, but if it is angered, it completely destroys its surroundings with its intense breath.
Moon: This Pokémon is friendly to people and loves children most of all. It comes from deep in the mountains to play with children it likes in town.

Dhelmise
Sun: Swinging its massive anchor, it can KO Wailord in a single blow. What appears to be green seaweed is actually its body.
Moon: The soul of seaweed adrift in the waves became reborn as this Pokémon. It maintains itself with new infusions of seabed detritus and seaweed.

Jangmo-o
Sun: It expresses its feelings by smacking its scales. Metallic sounds echo through the tall mountains where Jangmo-o lives.
Moon: They live in mountains where no trace of humans can be detected. Jangmo-o grow little by little as they battle one another.

Hakamo-o
Sun: It leaps at its prey with a courageous shout. Its scaly punches tear its opponents to shreds.
Moon: It sheds and regrows its scales on a continuous basis. The scales become harder and sharper each time they’re regrown.

Kommo-o
Sun: When it spots enemies, it threatens them by jingling the scales on its tail. Weak opponents will crack and flee in panic.
Moon: Its rigid scales function as offense and defense. In the past, its scales were processed and used to make weapons and other commodities.

Tapu Koko
Sun: This guardian deity of Melemele is brimming with curiosity. It summons thunderclouds and stores their lightning inside its body.
Moon: It confuses its enemies by flying too quickly for the eye to follow. It has a hair-trigger temper but forgets what made it angry an instant later.

Tapu Lele
Sun: This guardian deity of Akala is guilelessly cruel. The fragrant aroma of flowers is the source of its energy.
Moon: As it flutters about, it scatters its strangely glowing scales. Touching them is said to restore good health on the spot.

Tapu Bulu
Sun: It pulls large trees up by the roots and swings them around. It causes vegetation to grow, and then it absorbs energy from the growth.
Moon: The guardian deity of Ula’ula is a lazy Pokémon. It commands plants to immobilize its foes and then deals them a savage blow with its horns.

Tapu Fini
Sun: The dense fog it creates brings the downfall and destruction of its confused enemies. Ocean currents are the source of its energy.
Moon: The guardian deity of Poni, it can control water. People say it can create pure water that will wash away any uncleanness.

Cosmog
Sun: Its body is gaseous and frail. It slowly grows as it collects dust from the atmosphere.
Moon: In ages past, it was called the child of the stars. It’s said to be a Pokémon from another world, but no specific details are known.

Cosmoem
Sun: Motionless as if dead, its body is faintly warm to the touch. In the distant past, it was called the cocoon of the stars.
Moon: There’s something accumulating around the black core within its hard shell. People think this Pokémon may come from another world.

Solgaleo
Sun: It is said to live in another world. The intense light it radiates from the surface of its body can make the darkest of nights light up like midday.
Moon: This Pokémon is said to be a male evolution of Cosmog. At the activation of its third eye, it departs for another world.

Lunala
Sun: It is said to be a female evolution of Cosmog. When its third eye activates, away it flies to another world.
Moon: Said to live in another world, this Pokémon devours light, drawing the moonless dark veil of night over the brightness of day.

Nihilego
Sun: One of several mysterious Ultra Beasts. People on the street report observing those infested by it suddenly becoming violent.
Moon: One of the Ultra Beasts. It’s unclear whether or not this Pokémon is sentient, but sometimes it can be observed behaving like a young girl.

Buzzwole
Sun: This Ultra Beast appeared from another world. It shows off its body, but whether that display is a boast or a threat remains unclear.
Moon: A mysterious life-form called an Ultra Beast. Witnesses saw it pulverize a dump truck with a single punch.

Pheromosa
Sun: One of the dangerous Ultra Beasts, it has been spotted running across the land at terrific speeds.
Moon: One of the Ultra Beasts. It refuses to touch anything, perhaps because it senses some uncleanness in this world.

Xurkitree
Sun: One of the mysterious life-forms known as Ultra Beasts. Astonishing electric shocks emanate from its entire body, according to witnesses.
Moon: It appeared from the Ultra Wormhole. It raided a power plant, so people think it energizes itself with electricity.

Celesteela
Sun: It appeared from the Ultra Wormhole. Witnesses observed it flying across the sky at high speed.
Moon: One kind of Ultra Beast. Witnesses have seen it burn down a forest by expelling gas from its two arms.

Kartana
Sun: This Ultra Beast came from the Ultra Wormhole. It seems not to attack enemies on its own, but its sharp body is a dangerous weapon in itself.
Moon: One of the Ultra Beast life-forms, it was observed cutting down a gigantic steel tower with one stroke of its blade.

Guzzlord
Sun: It has gobbled mountains and swallowed whole buildings, according to reports. It’s one of the Ultra Beasts.
Moon: A dangerous Ultra Beast, it appears to be eating constantly, but for some reason its droppings have never been found.

Necrozma
Sun: Reminiscent of the Ultra Beasts, this life-form, apparently asleep underground, is thought to have come from another world in ancient times.
Moon: Light is apparently the source of its energy. It has an extraordinarily vicious disposition and is constantly firing off laser beams.

Magearna
Sun: This artificial Pokémon, constructed more than 500 years ago, can understand human speech but cannot itself speak.
Moon: Its mechanized body is merely a vessel. Its true self is its Soul-Heart, an artificial soul.

Magearna (Original Color)
Sun: This beautiful form reflects Magearna’s appearance when first presented to a king’s daughter 500 years ago.
Moon: This gorgeous Magearna looks as it did at the time of its invention. Its luxurious decoration pleased the king’s daughter.

Marshadow
Sun: Able to conceal itself in shadows, it never appears before humans, so its very existence was the stuff of myth.
Moon: It lurks in the shadows of others, copying their movements and powers. This Pokémon is craven and cowering.
