Bulbasaur
Sword: There is a plant seed on its back right from the day this Pokémon is born. The seed slowly grows larger.
Shield: While it is young, it uses the nutrients that are stored in the seed on its back in order to grow.

Ivysaur
Sword: When the bulb on its back grows large, it appears to lose the ability to stand on its hind legs.
Shield: Exposure to sunlight adds to its strength. Sunlight also makes the bud on its back grow larger.

Venusaur
Sword: Its plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight.
Shield: A bewitching aroma wafts from its flower. The fragrance becalms those engaged in a battle.

Gigantamax Venusaur
Sword: In battle, this Pokémon swings around two thick vines. If these vines slammed into a 10-story building, they could easily topple it.
Shield: Huge amounts of pollen burst from it with the force of a volcanic eruption. Breathing in too much of the pollen can cause fainting.

Charmander
Sword: It has a preference for hot things. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail.
Shield: From the time it is born, a flame burns at the tip of its tail. Its life would end if the flame were to go out.

Charmeleon
Sword: It has a barbaric nature. In battle, it whips its fiery tail around and slashes away with sharp claws.
Shield: If it becomes agitated during battle, it spouts intense flames, incinerating its surroundings.

Charizard
Sword: It spits fire that is hot enough to melt boulders. It may cause forest fires by blowing flames.
Shield: Its wings can carry this Pokémon close to an altitude of 4,600 feet. It blows out fire at very high temperatures.

Gigantamax Charizard
Sword: This colossal, flame-winged figure of a Charizard was brought about by Gigantamax energy.
Shield: The flame inside its body burns hotter than 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit. When Charizard roars, that temperature climbs even higher.

Squirtle
Sword: When it retracts its long neck into its shell, it squirts out water with vigorous force.
Shield: When it feels threatened, it draws its limbs inside its shell and sprays water from its mouth.

Wartortle
Sword: It is recognized as a symbol of longevity. If its shell has algae on it, that Wartortle is very old.
Shield: It cleverly controls its furry ears and tail to maintain its balance while swimming.

Blastoise
Sword: It crushes its foe under its heavy body to cause fainting. In a pinch, it will withdraw inside its shell.
Shield: The rocket cannons on its shell fire jets of water capable of punching holes through thick steel.

Gigantamax Blastoise
Sword: It's not very good at precision shooting. When attacking, it just fires its 31 cannons over and over and over.
Shield: Water fired from this Pokémon's central main cannon has enough power to blast a hole into a mountain.

Caterpie
Sword: For protection, it releases a horrible stench from the antenna on its head to drive away enemies.
Shield: Its short feet are tipped with suction pads that enable it to tirelessly climb slopes and walls.

Metapod
Sword: It is waiting for the moment to evolve. At this stage, it can only harden, so it remains motionless to avoid attack.
Shield: Even though it is encased in a sturdy shell, the body inside is tender. It can’t withstand a harsh attack.

Butterfree
Sword: In battle, it flaps its wings at great speed to release highly toxic dust into the air.
Shield: It collects honey every day. It rubs honey onto the hairs on its legs to carry it back to its nest.

Gigantamax Butterfree
Sword: Crystallized Gigantamax energy makes up this Pokémon's blindingly bright and highly toxic scales.
Shield: Once it has opponents trapped in a tornado that could blow away a 10-ton truck, it finishes them off with its poisonous scales.

Pikachu
Sword: Pikachu that can generate powerful electricity have cheek sacs that are extra soft and super stretchy.
Shield: When Pikachu meet, they’ll touch their tails together and exchange electricity through them as a form of greeting.

Original Cap Pikachu
Sword: This Pikachu wears its partner's cap, which is brimming with memories of traveling through many different regions.
Shield: This Pikachu is wearing its Trainer's cap. The cap is proof that the two traveled across many regions together.

Hoenn, Sinnoh, Unova, Kalos, and Alola Cap Pikachu
Sword: This Pikachu wears its partner's cap, which is brimming with memories of traveling through the Hoenn/Sinnoh/Unova/Kalos/Alola region.
Shield: This Pikachu is wearing its Trainer's cap. The cap is proof that the two traveled throughout the Hoenn/Sinnoh/Unova/Kalos/Alola region together.

Partner Cap Pikachu
Sword: This Pikachu wears its partner's cap, which is brimming with memories of when they first met.
Shield: This Pikachu is wearing its Trainer's cap. The cap is a precious symbol of a fateful encounter.

World Cap Pikachu
Sword: This Pikachu wears its partner's cap, which is brimming with memories of traveling through different regions.
Shield: This Pikachu is wearing its Trainer's cap. The cap is a precious symbol that travels across different regions with Pikachu.

Gigantamax Pikachu
Sword: Its Gigantamax power expanded, forming its supersized body and towering tail.
Shield: When it smashes its opponents with its bolt-shaped tail, it delivers a surge of electricity equivalent to a lightning strike.

Raichu
Sword: Its long tail serves as a ground to protect itself from its own high-voltage power.
Shield: If its electric pouches run empty, it raises its tail to gather electricity from the atmosphere.

Alolan Raichu
Sword: It's believed that the weather, climate, and food of the Alola region all play a part in causing Pikachu to evolve into this form of Raichu.
Shield: This Pokémon rides on its tail while it uses its psychic powers to levitate. It attacks with star-shaped thunderbolts.

Sandshrew
Sword: It loves to bathe in the grit of dry, sandy areas. By sand bathing, the Pokémon rids itself of dirt and moisture clinging to its body.
Shield: It burrows into the ground to create its nest. If hard stones impede its tunneling, it uses its sharp claws to shatter them and then carries on digging.

Alolan Sandshrew
Sword: Life on mountains covered with deep snow has granted this Pokémon a body of ice that's as hard as steel.
Shield: It lives in snowy mountains on southern islands. When a blizzard rolls in, this Pokémon hunkers down in the snow to avoid getting blown away.

Sandslash
Sword: The drier the area Sandslash lives in, the harder and smoother the Pokémon’s spikes will feel when touched.
Shield: It climbs trees by hooking on with its sharp claws. Sandslash shares the berries it gathers, dropping them down to Sandshrew waiting below the tree.

Alolan Sandslash
Sword: It uses large, hooked claws to cut a path through deep snow as it runs. On snowy mountains, this Sandslash is faster than any other Pokémon.
Shield: Many people climb snowy mountains, hoping to see the icy spikes of these Pokémon glistening in the light of dawn.

Nidoran♀
Sword: Females are more sensitive to smells than males. While foraging, they’ll use their whiskers to check wind direction and stay downwind of predators.
Shield: It uses its hard incisor teeth to crush and eat berries. The tip of a female Nidoran’s horn is a bit more rounded than the tip of a male’s horn.

Nidorina
Sword: The horn on its head has atrophied. It’s thought that this happens so Nidorina’s children won’t get poked while their mother is feeding them.
Shield: If the group is threatened, these Pokémon will band together to assault enemies with a chorus of ultrasonic waves.

Nidoqueen
Sword: Nidoqueen is better at defense than offense. With scales like armor, this Pokémon will shield its children from any kind of attack.
Shield: It pacifies offspring by placing them in the gaps between the spines on its back. The spines will never secrete poison while young are present.

Nidoran♂
Sword: The horn on a male Nidoran’s forehead contains a powerful poison. This is a very cautious Pokémon, always straining its large ears.
Shield: Small but brave, this Pokémon will hold its ground and even risk its life in battle to protect the female it’s friendly with.

Nidorino
Sword: With a horn that’s harder than diamond, this Pokémon goes around shattering boulders as it searches for a moon stone.
Shield: It’s nervous and quick to act aggressively. The potency of its poison increases along with the level of adrenaline present in its body.

Nidoking
Sword: When it goes on a rampage, it’s impossible to control. But in the presence of a Nidoqueen it’s lived with for a long time, Nidoking calms down.
Shield: Nidoking prides itself on its strength. It’s forceful and spirited in battle, making use of its thick tail and diamond-crushing horn.

Clefairy
Sword: It is said that happiness will come to those who see a gathering of Clefairy dancing under a full moon.
Shield: Its adorable behavior and cry make it highly popular. However, this cute Pokémon is rarely found.

Clefable
Sword: A timid fairy Pokémon that is rarely seen, it will run and hide the moment it senses people.
Shield: Their ears are sensitive enough to hear a pin drop from over a mile away, so they’re usually found in quiet places.

Vulpix
Sword: While young, it has six gorgeous tails. When it grows, several new tails are sprouted.
Shield: As each tail grows, its fur becomes more lustrous. When held, it feels slightly warm.

Alolan Vulpix
Sword: After long years in the ever-snowcapped mountains of Alola, this Vulpix has gained power over ice.
Shield: If you observe its curly hairs through a microscope, you'll see small ice particles springing up.

Ninetales
Sword: It is said to live 1,000 years, and each of its tails is loaded with supernatural powers.
Shield: Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1,000-year curse.

Alolan Ninetales
Sword: A deity resides in the snowy mountains where this Pokémon lives. In ancient times, it was worshiped as that deity's incarnation.
Shield: While it will guide travelers who get lost on a snowy mountain down to the mountain's base, it won't forgive anyone who harms nature.

Jigglypuff
Sword: Jigglypuff has top-notch lung capacity, even by comparison to other Pokémon. It won’t stop singing its lullabies until its foes fall asleep.
Shield: By freely changing the wavelength of its voice, Jigglypuff sings a mysterious melody sure to make any listener sleepy.

Wigglytuff
Sword: The more air it takes in, the more it inflates. If opponents catch it in a bad mood, it will inflate itself to an enormous size to intimidate them.
Shield: It’s proud of its fur, which is fine and delicate. In particular, the curl on its forehead has a texture that’s perfectly heavenly.

Zubat
Sword: It emits ultrasonic waves from its mouth to check its surroundings. Even in tight caves, Zubat flies around with skill.
Shield: Zubat live in caves, down where the sun’s light won’t reach. In the morning, they gather together to keep each other warm as they sleep.

Golbat
Sword: It loves to drink other creatures’ blood. It’s said that if it finds others of its kind going hungry, it sometimes shares the blood it’s gathered.
Shield: Its feet are tiny, but this Pokémon walks skillfully. It sneaks up on sleeping prey before sinking in its fangs and slurping up blood.

Oddish
Sword: If exposed to moonlight, it starts to move. It roams far and wide at night to scatter its seeds.
Shield: During the day, it stays in the cold underground to avoid the sun. It grows by bathing in moonlight.

Gloom
Sword: Its pistils exude an incredibly foul odor. The horrid stench can cause fainting at a distance of 1.25 miles.
Shield: What appears to be drool is actually sweet honey. It is very sticky and clings stubbornly if touched.

Vileplume
Sword: It has the world’s largest petals. With every step, the petals shake out heavy clouds of toxic pollen.
Shield: The larger its petals, the more toxic pollen it contains. Its big head is heavy and hard to hold up.

Diglett
Sword: If a Diglett digs through a field, it leaves the soil perfectly tilled and ideal for planting crops.
Shield: It burrows through the ground at a shallow depth. It leaves raised earth in its wake, making it easy to spot.

Alolan Diglett
Sword: The metal-rich geology of this Pokémon's habitat caused it to develop steel whiskers on its head.
Shield: Its three hairs change shape depending on Diglett's mood. They're a useful communication tool among these Pokémon.

Dugtrio
Sword: A team of Diglett triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground.
Shield: These Diglett triplets dig over 60 miles below sea level. No one knows what it’s like underground.

Alolan Dugtrio
Sword: Their beautiful, metallic whiskers create a sort of protective helmet on their heads, and they also function as highly precise sensors.
Shield: The three of them get along very well. Through their formidable teamwork, they defeat powerful opponents.

Meowth
Sword: It loves to collect shiny things. If it’s in a good mood, it might even let its Trainer have a look at its hoard of treasures.
Shield: It washes its face regularly to keep the coin on its forehead spotless. It doesn’t get along with Galarian Meowth.

Alolan Meowth
Sword: It's accustomed to luxury because it used to live with Alolan royalty. As a result, it's very picky about food.
Shield: Deeply proud and keenly smart, this Pokémon moves with cunning during battle and relentlessly attacks enemies' weak points.

Galarian Meowth
Sword: Living with a savage, seafaring people has toughened this Pokémon's body so much that parts of it have turned to iron.
Shield: These daring Pokémon have coins on their foreheads. Darker coins are harder, and harder coins garner more respect among Meowth.

Gigantamax Meowth
Sword: The pattern that has appeared on its giant coin is thought to be the key to unlocking the secrets of the Dynamax phenomenon.
Shield: Its body has grown incredibly long and the coin on its forehead has grown incredibly large—all thanks to Gigantamax power.

Persian
Sword: Getting this prideful Pokémon to warm up to you takes a lot of effort, and it will claw at you the moment it gets annoyed.
Shield: Its elegant and refined behavior clashes with that of the barbaric Perrserker. The relationship between the two is one of mutual disdain.

Alolan Persian
Sword: The round face of Alolan Persian is considered to be a symbol of prosperity in the Alola region, so these Pokémon are very well cared for.
Shield: This Pokémon is one tough opponent. Not only does it have formidable physical abilities, but it's also not above fighting dirty.

Psyduck
Sword: Psyduck is constantly beset by headaches. If the Pokémon lets its strange power erupt, apparently the pain subsides for a while.
Shield: As Psyduck gets stressed out, its headache gets progressively worse. It uses intense psychic energy to overwhelm those around it.

Golduck
Sword: This Pokémon lives in gently flowing rivers. It paddles through the water with its long limbs, putting its graceful swimming skills on display.
Shield: Old tales tell of Golduck punishing those that defiled its river. The guilty were dragged into the water and taken away.

Growlithe
Sword: It has a brave and trustworthy nature. It fearlessly stands up to bigger and stronger foes.
Shield: Extremely loyal, it will fearlessly bark at any opponent to protect its own Trainer from harm.

Arcanine
Sword: The sight of it running over 6,200 miles in a single day and night has captivated many people.
Shield: A Pokémon that has long been admired for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings.

Poliwag
Sword: For Poliwag, swimming is easier than walking. The swirl pattern on its belly is actually part of the Pokémon’s innards showing through the skin.
Shield: In rivers with fast-flowing water, this Pokémon will cling to a rock by using its thick lips, which act like a suction cup.

Poliwhirl
Sword: Staring at the swirl on its belly causes drowsiness. This trait of Poliwhirl’s has been used in place of lullabies to get children to go to sleep.
Shield: This Pokémon’s sweat is a slimy mucus. When captured, Poliwhirl can slither from its enemies’ grasp and escape.

Poliwrath
Sword: Its body is solid muscle. When swimming through cold seas, Poliwrath uses its impressive arms to smash through drift ice and plow forward.
Shield: Poliwrath is skilled at both swimming and martial arts. It uses its well-trained arms to dish out powerful punches.

Abra
Sword: This Pokémon uses its psychic powers while it sleeps. The contents of Abra’s dreams affect the powers that the Pokémon wields.
Shield: Abra can teleport in its sleep. Apparently the more deeply Abra sleeps, the farther its teleportations go.

Kadabra
Sword: Using its psychic power, Kadabra levitates as it sleeps. It uses its springy tail as a pillow.
Shield: This Pokémon’s telekinesis is immensely powerful. To prepare for evolution, Kadabra stores up psychic energy in the star on its forehead.

Alakazam
Sword: It has an incredibly high level of intelligence. Some say that Alakazam remembers everything that ever happens to it, from birth till death.
Shield: Alakazam wields potent psychic powers. It’s said that this Pokémon used these powers to create the spoons it holds.

Machop
Sword: Its whole body is composed of muscles. Even though it’s the size of a human child, it can hurl 100 grown-ups.
Shield: Always brimming with power, it passes time by lifting boulders. Doing so makes it even stronger.

Machoke
Sword: Its muscular body is so powerful, it must wear a power-save belt to be able to regulate its motions.
Shield: Its formidable body never gets tired. It helps people by doing work such as the moving of heavy goods.

Machamp
Sword: It quickly swings its four arms to rock its opponents with ceaseless punches and chops from all angles.
Shield: With four arms that react more quickly than it can think, it can execute many punches at once.

Gigantamax Machamp
Sword: The Gigantamax energy coursing through its arms makes its punches hit as hard as bomb blasts.
Shield: One of these Pokémon once used its immeasurable strength to lift a large ship that was in trouble. It then carried the ship to port.

Tentacool
Sword: Tentacool is not a particularly strong swimmer. It drifts across the surface of shallow seas as it searches for prey.
Shield: This Pokémon is mostly made of water. A Tentacool out in the ocean is very hard to spot, because its body blends in with the sea.

Tentacruel
Sword: When the red orbs on Tentacruel’s head glow brightly, watch out. The Pokémon is about to fire off a burst of ultrasonic waves.
Shield: Its 80 tentacles can stretch and shrink freely. Tentacruel ensnares prey in a net of spread-out tentacles, delivering venomous stings to its catch.

Ponyta
Sword: It can’t run properly when it’s newly born. As it races around with others of its kind, its legs grow stronger.
Shield: If you’ve been accepted by Ponyta, its burning mane is mysteriously no longer hot to the touch.

Galarian Ponyta
Sword: Its small horn hides a healing power. With a few rubs from this Pokémon's horn, any slight wound you have will be healed.
Shield: This Pokémon will look into your eyes and read the contents of your heart. If it finds evil there, it promptly hides away.

Rapidash
Sword: This Pokémon can be seen galloping through fields at speeds of up to 150 mph, its fiery mane fluttering in the wind.
Shield: The fastest runner becomes the leader, and it decides the herd’s pace and direction of travel.

Galarian Rapidash
Sword: Little can stand up to its psycho cut. Unleashed from this Pokémon's horn, the move will punch a hole right through a thick metal sheet.
Shield: Brave and prideful, this Pokémon dashes airily through the forest, its steps aided by the psychic power stored in the fur on its fetlocks.

Slowpoke
Sword: Slow-witted and oblivious, this Pokémon won’t feel any pain if its tail gets eaten. It won’t notice when its tail grows back, either.
Shield: When this Pokémon’s tail is soaked in water, sweetness seeps from it. Slowpoke uses this trait to lure in and fish up other Pokémon.

Galarian Slowpoke
Sword: Although this Pokémon is normally zoned out, its expression abruptly sharpens on occasion. The cause for this seems to lie in Slowpoke's diet.
Shield: Because Galarian Slowpoke eat the seeds of a plant that grows only in Galar, their tails have developed a spicy flavor.

Slowbro
Sword: Slowpoke became Slowbro when a Shellder bit on to its tail. Sweet flavors seeping from the tail make the Shellder feel as if its life is a dream.
Shield: Being bitten by a Shellder shocked this Pokémon into standing on two legs. If the Shellder lets go, it seems Slowbro will turn back into a Slowpoke.

Galarian Slowbro
Sword: A Shellder bite set off a chemical reaction with the spices inside Slowbro's body, causing Slowbro to become a Poison-type Pokémon.
Shield: If this Pokémon squeezes the tongue of the Shellder biting it, the Shellder will launch a toxic liquid from the tip of its shell.

Magnemite
Sword: At times, Magnemite runs out of electricity and ends up on the ground. If you give batteries to a grounded Magnemite, it’ll start moving again.
Shield: It subsists on electricity. As Magnemite flies, it emits electromagnetic waves from the units on each side of its body.

Magneton
Sword: This Pokémon is three Magnemite that have linked together. Magneton sends out powerful radio waves to study its surroundings.
Shield: This Pokémon is constantly putting out a powerful magnetic force. Most computers go haywire when a Magneton approaches.

Farfetch’d
Sword: The stalk this Pokémon carries in its wings serves as a sword to cut down opponents. In a dire situation, the stalk can also serve as food.
Shield: They use a plant stalk as a weapon, but not all of them use it in the same way. Several distinct styles of stalk fighting have been observed.

Galarian Farfetch'd
Sword: The Farfetch'd of the Galar region are brave warriors, and they wield thick, tough leeks in battle.
Shield: The stalks of leeks are thicker and longer in the Galar region. Farfetch'd that adapted to these stalks took on a unique form.

Shellder
Sword: It swims facing backward by opening and closing its two-piece shell. It is surprisingly fast.
Shield: Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open.

Cloyster
Sword: Its shell is extremely hard. It cannot be shattered, even with a bomb. The shell opens only when it is attacking.
Shield: Once it slams its shell shut, it is impossible to open, even by those with superior strength.

Gastly
Sword: Born from gases, anyone would faint if engulfed by its gaseous body, which contains poison.
Shield: With its gas-like body, it can sneak into any place it desires. However, it can be blown away by wind.

Haunter
Sword: Its tongue is made of gas. If licked, its victim starts shaking constantly until death eventually comes.
Shield: If you get the feeling of being watched in darkness when nobody is around, Haunter is there.

Gengar
Sword: On the night of a full moon, if shadows move on their own and laugh, it must be Gengar’s doing.
Shield: It is said to emerge from darkness to steal the lives of those who become lost in mountains.

Gigantamax Gengar
Sword: Rumor has it that its gigantic mouth leads not into its body, filled with cursed energy, but instead directly to the afterlife.
Shield: It lays traps, hoping to steal the lives of those it catches. If you stand in front of its mouth, you'll hear your loved ones' voices calling out to you.

Onix
Sword: As it digs through the ground, it absorbs many hard objects. This is what makes its body so solid.
Shield: It rapidly bores through the ground at 50 mph by squirming and twisting its massive, rugged body.

Krabby
Sword: It can be found near the sea. The large pincers grow back if they are torn out of their sockets.
Shield: If it senses danger approaching, it cloaks itself with bubbles from its mouth so it will look bigger.

Kingler
Sword: Its large and hard pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, being so big, it is unwieldy to move.
Shield: Its oversized claw is very powerful, but when it’s not in battle, the claw just gets in the way.

Gigantamax Kingler
Sword: The flow of Gigantamax energy has spurred this Pokémon's left pincer to grow to an enormous size. That claw can pulverize anything.
Shield: The bubbles it spews out are strongly alkaline. Any opponents hit by them will have their bodies quickly melted away.

Exeggcute
Sword: Though it may look like it’s just a bunch of eggs, it’s a proper Pokémon. Exeggcute communicates with others of its kind via telepathy, apparently.
Shield: These Pokémon get nervous when they’re not in a group of six. The minute even one member of the group goes missing, Exeggcute become cowardly.

Exeggutor
Sword: Each of Exeggutor’s three heads is thinking different thoughts. The three don’t seem to be very interested in one another.
Shield: When they work together, Exeggutor’s three heads can put out powerful psychic energy. Cloudy days make this Pokémon sluggish.

Alolan Exeggutor
Sword: Blazing sunlight has brought out the true form and powers of this Pokémon.
Shield: This Pokémon's psychic powers aren't as strong as they once were. The head on this Exeggutor's tail scans surrounding areas with weak telepathy.

Cubone
Sword: When the memory of its departed mother brings it to tears, its cries echo mournfully within the skull it wears on its head.
Shield: This Pokémon wears the skull of its deceased mother. Sometimes Cubone’s dreams make it cry, but each tear Cubone sheds makes it stronger.

Marowak
Sword: This Pokémon overcame its sorrow to evolve a sturdy new body. Marowak faces its opponents bravely, using a bone as a weapon.
Shield: When this Pokémon evolved, the skull of its mother fused to it. Marowak’s temperament also turned vicious at the same time.

Alolan Marowak
Sword: This Pokémon sets the bone it holds on fire and dances through the night as a way to mourn its fallen allies.
Shield: The cursed flames that light up the bone carried by this Pokémon are said to cause both mental and physical pain that will never fade.

Hitmonlee
Sword: This amazing Pokémon has an awesome sense of balance. It can kick in succession from any position.
Shield: The legs freely contract and stretch. The stretchy legs allow it to hit a distant foe with a rising kick.

Hitmonchan
Sword: Its punches slice the air. They are launched at such high speed, even a slight graze could cause a burn.
Shield: Its punches slice the air. However, it seems to need a short break after fighting for three minutes.

Lickitung
Sword: If this Pokémon’s sticky saliva gets on you and you don’t clean it off, an intense itch will set in. The itch won’t go away, either.
Shield: Bug Pokémon are Lickitung’s main food source. This Pokémon paralyzes its prey with a lick from its long tongue, then swallows the prey whole.

Koffing
Sword: Its body is full of poisonous gas. It floats into garbage dumps, seeking out the fumes of raw, rotting trash.
Shield: It adores polluted air. Some claim that Koffing used to be more plentiful in the Galar region than they are now.

Weezing
Sword: It mixes gases between its two bodies. It’s said that these Pokémon were seen all over the Galar region back in the day.
Shield: It can’t suck in air quite as well as a Galarian Weezing, but the toxins it creates are more potent than those of its counterpart.

Galarian Weezing
Sword: This Pokémon consumes particles that contaminate the air. Instead of leaving droppings, it expels clean air.
Shield: Long ago, during a time when droves of factories fouled the air with pollution, Weezing changed into this form for some reason.

Rhyhorn
Sword: Strong, but not too bright, this Pokémon can shatter even a skyscraper with its charging tackles.
Shield: It can remember only one thing at a time. Once it starts rushing, it forgets why it started.

Rhydon
Sword: It begins walking on its hind legs after evolution. It can punch holes through boulders with its horn.
Shield: Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit.

Chansey
Sword: The egg Chansey carries is not only delicious but also packed with nutrition. It’s used as a high-class cooking ingredient.
Shield: This species was once very slow. To protect their eggs from other creatures, these Pokémon became able to flee quickly.

Tangela
Sword: Hidden beneath a tangle of vines that grows nonstop even if the vines are torn off, this Pokémon’s true appearance remains a mystery.
Shield: The vines of a Tangela have a distinct scent. In some parts of Galar, Tangela vines are used as herbs.

Kangaskhan
Sword: Although it’s carrying its baby in a pouch on its belly, Kangaskhan is swift on its feet. It intimidates its opponents with quick jabs.
Shield: There are records of a lost human child being raised by a childless Kangaskhan.

Horsea
Sword: Horsea makes its home in oceans with gentle currents. If this Pokémon is under attack, it spits out pitch-black ink and escapes.
Shield: They swim with dance-like motions and cause whirlpools to form. Horsea compete to see which of them can generate the biggest whirlpool.

Seadra
Sword: It’s the males that raise the offspring. While Seadra are raising young, the spines on their backs secrete thicker and stronger poison.
Shield: Seadra’s mouth is slender, but its suction power is strong. In an instant, Seadra can suck in food that’s larger than the opening of its mouth.

Goldeen
Sword: Its dorsal, pectoral, and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the Water Dancer.
Shield: Its dorsal and pectoral fins are strongly developed like muscles. It can swim at a speed of five knots.

Seaking
Sword: In autumn, its body becomes more fatty in preparing to propose to a mate. It takes on beautiful colors.
Shield: Using its horn, it bores holes in riverbed boulders, making nests to prevent its eggs from washing away.

Staryu
Sword: If you visit a beach at the end of summer, you’ll be able to see groups of Staryu lighting up in a steady rhythm.
Shield: Fish Pokémon nibble at it, but Staryu isn’t bothered. Its body regenerates quickly, even if part of it is completely torn off.

Starmie
Sword: This Pokémon has an organ known as its core. The organ glows in seven colors when Starmie is unleashing its potent psychic powers.
Shield: Starmie swims by spinning its body at high speed. As this Pokémon cruises through the ocean, it absorbs tiny plankton.

Mr. Mime
Sword: The broadness of its hands may be no coincidence—many scientists believe its palms became enlarged specifically for pantomiming.
Shield: It’s known for its top-notch pantomime skills. It protects itself from all sorts of attacks by emitting auras from its fingers to create walls.

Galarian Mr. Mime
Sword: Its talent is tap-dancing. It can also manipulate temperatures to create a floor of ice, which this Pokémon can kick up to use as a barrier.
Shield: It can radiate chilliness from the bottoms of its feet. It'll spend the whole day tap-dancing on a frozen floor.

Scyther
Sword: As Scyther fights more and more battles, its scythes become sharper and sharper. With a single slice, Scyther can fell a massive tree.
Shield: If you come across an area in a forest where a lot of the trees have been cut down, what you’ve found is a Scyther’s territory.

Jynx
Sword: In certain parts of Galar, Jynx was once feared and worshiped as the Queen of Ice.
Shield: The Jynx of Galar often have beautiful and delicate voices. Some of these Pokémon have even gathered a fan base.

Electabuzz
Sword: Many power plants keep Ground-type Pokémon around as a defense against Electabuzz that come seeking electricity.
Shield: With the coming of a storm, many of these Pokémon will gather under tall trees and sit there waiting for lightning to strike.

Magmar
Sword: Magmar dispatches its prey with fire. But it regrets this habit once it realizes that it has burned its intended prey to a charred crisp.
Shield: These Pokémon’s bodies are constantly burning. Magmar are feared as one of the causes behind fires.

Pinsir
Sword: These Pokémon judge one another based on pincers. Thicker, more impressive pincers make for more popularity with the opposite gender.
Shield: This Pokémon clamps its pincers down on its prey and then either splits the prey in half or flings it away.

Tauros
Sword: When Tauros begins whipping itself with its tails, it’s a warning that the Pokémon is about to charge with astounding speed.
Shield: The Tauros of the Galar region are volatile in nature, and they won’t allow people to ride on their backs.

Magikarp
Sword: It is virtually worthless in terms of both power and speed. It is the most weak and pathetic Pokémon in the world.
Shield: This weak and pathetic Pokémon gets easily pushed along rivers when there are strong currents.

Gyarados
Sword: It has an extremely aggressive nature. The Hyper Beam it shoots from its mouth totally incinerates all targets.
Shield: Once it begins to rampage, a Gyarados will burn everything down, even in a harsh storm.

Lapras
Sword: A smart and kindhearted Pokémon, it glides across the surface of the sea while its beautiful song echoes around it.
Shield: Crossing icy seas is no issue for this cold-resistant Pokémon. Its smooth skin is a little cool to the touch.

Gigantamax Lapras
Sword: Over 5,000 people can ride on its shell at once. And it's a very comfortable ride, without the slightest shaking or swaying.
Shield: It surrounds itself with a huge ring of gathered ice particles. It uses the ring to smash any icebergs that might impede its graceful swimming.

Ditto
Sword: It can reconstitute its entire cellular structure to change into what it sees, but it returns to normal when it relaxes.
Shield: When it encounters another Ditto, it will move faster than normal to duplicate that opponent exactly.

Eevee
Sword: It has the ability to alter the composition of its body to suit its surrounding environment.
Shield: Thanks to its unstable genetic makeup, this special Pokémon conceals many different possible evolutions.

Gigantamax Eevee
Sword: Gigantamax energy upped the fluffiness of the fur around Eevee's neck. The fur will envelop a foe, capturing its body and captivating its mind.
Shield: Having gotten even friendlier and more innocent, Eevee tries to play with anyone around, only to end up crushing them with its immense body.

Vaporeon
Sword: When Vaporeon’s fins begin to vibrate, it is a sign that rain will come within a few hours.
Shield: Its body’s cellular structure is similar to the molecular composition of water. It can melt invisibly in water.

Jolteon
Sword: If it is angered or startled, the fur all over its body bristles like sharp needles that pierce foes.
Shield: It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10,000-volt lightning bolts.

Flareon
Sword: Once it has stored up enough heat, this Pokémon’s body temperature can reach up to 1,700 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shield: It stores some of the air it inhales in its internal flame pouch, which heats it to over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.

Porygon
Sword: State-of-the-art technology was used to create Porygon. It was the first artificial Pokémon to be created via computer programming.
Shield: In recent years, this species has been very helpful in cyberspace. These Pokémon will go around checking to make sure no suspicious data exists.

Omanyte
Sword: Because some Omanyte manage to escape after being restored or are released into the wild by people, this species is becoming a problem.
Shield: This Pokémon is a member of an ancient, extinct species. Omanyte paddles through water with its 10 tentacles, looking like it’s just drifting along.

Omastar
Sword: Weighed down by a large and heavy shell, Omastar couldn’t move very fast. Some say it went extinct because it was unable to catch food.
Shield: Omastar’s sharp fangs could crush rock, but the Pokémon can attack only the prey that come within reach of its tentacles.

Kabuto
Sword: This species is almost entirely extinct. Kabuto molt every three days, making their shells harder and harder.
Shield: While some say this species has gone extinct, Kabuto sightings are apparently fairly common in some places.

Kabutops
Sword: Kabutops slices its prey apart and sucks out the fluids. The discarded body parts become food for other Pokémon.
Shield: The cause behind the extinction of this species is unknown. Kabutops were aggressive Pokémon that inhabited warm seas.

Aerodactyl
Sword: This is a ferocious Pokémon from ancient times. Apparently even modern technology is incapable of producing a perfectly restored specimen.
Shield: Aerodactyl’s sawlike fangs can shred skin to tatters—even the skin of Steel-type Pokémon.

Snorlax
Sword: It is not satisfied unless it eats over 880 pounds of food every day. When it is done eating, it goes promptly to sleep.
Shield: This Pokémon’s stomach is so strong, even eating moldy or rotten food will not affect it.

Gigantamax Snorlax
Sword: Gigantamax energy has affected stray seeds and even pebbles that got stuck to Snorlax, making them grow to a huge size.
Shield: Terrifyingly strong, this Pokémon is the size of a mountain—and moves about as much as one as well.

Articuno
Sword: It’s said that this Pokémon’s beautiful blue wings are made of ice. Articuno flies over snowy mountains, its long tail fluttering along behind it.
Shield: This Pokémon can control ice at will. Articuno is said to live in snowy mountains riddled with permafrost.

Galarian Articuno
Sword: Its feather-like blades are composed of psychic energy and can shear through thick iron sheets as if they were paper.
Shield: Known as Articuno, this Pokémon fires beams that can immobilize opponents as if they had been frozen solid.

Zapdos
Sword: This Pokémon has complete control over electricity. There are tales of Zapdos nesting in the dark depths of pitch-black thunderclouds.
Shield: Zapdos is a legendary bird Pokémon. It’s said that when Zapdos rubs its feathers together, lightning will fall immediately after.

Galarian Zapdos
Sword: When its feathers rub together, they produce a crackling sound like the zapping of electricity. That's why this Pokémon is called Zapdos.
Shield: One kick from its powerful legs will pulverize a dump truck. Supposedly, this Pokémon runs through the mountains at over 180 mph.

Moltres
Sword: It’s one of the legendary bird Pokémon. When Moltres flaps its flaming wings, they glimmer with a dazzling red glow.
Shield: There are stories of this Pokémon using its radiant, flame-cloaked wings to light up paths for those lost in the mountains.

Galarian Moltres
Sword: This Pokémon's sinister, flame-like aura will consume the spirit of any creature it hits. Victims become burned-out shadows of themselves.
Shield: The sinister aura that blazes like molten fire around this Pokémon is what inspired the name Moltres.

Dratini
Sword: Dratini dwells near bodies of rapidly flowing water, such as the plunge pools of waterfalls. As it grows, Dratini will shed its skin many times.
Shield: This Pokémon was long considered to be no more than a myth. The small lump on a Dratini’s forehead is actually a horn that’s still coming in.

Dragonair
Sword: This Pokémon lives in pristine oceans and lakes. It can control the weather, and it uses this power to fly into the sky, riding on the wind.
Shield: This Pokémon gathers power in the orbs on its tail and controls the weather. When enshrouded by an aura, Dragonair has a mystical appearance.

Dragonite
Sword: It’s a kindhearted Pokémon. If it spots a drowning person or Pokémon, Dragonite simply must help them.
Shield: This Pokémon is known as the Sea Incarnate. Figureheads that resemble Dragonite decorate the bows of many ships.

Mewtwo
Sword: Created from the DNA of Mew, this Pokémon is a dangerous combination of overwhelming power and a savage heart.
Shield: The research efforts of a certain scientist ultimately resulted in this Pokémon. Its powers are dedicated to battling.

Mew
Sword: It’s very intelligent and can use an incredible variety of moves. Many believe that all other Pokémon are descendants of this one.
Shield: This mythical Pokémon is said to be extinct, but sightings of it are still being reported to this day.

Hoothoot
Sword: It always stands on one foot. It changes feet so fast, the movement can rarely be seen.
Shield: It begins to hoot at the same time every day. Some Trainers use them in place of clocks.

Noctowl
Sword: Its eyes are specially developed to enable it to see clearly even in murky darkness and minimal light.
Shield: When it needs to think, it rotates its head 180 degrees to sharpen its intellectual power.

Crobat
Sword: Both of its legs have turned into wings. Without a sound, Crobat flies swiftly toward its prey and sinks its fangs into the nape of its target’s neck.
Shield: This Pokémon flaps its four wings skillfully. Crobat can fly through cramped caves without needing to slow down.

Chinchou
Sword: Its antennae, which evolved from a fin, have both positive and negative charges flowing through them.
Shield: On the dark ocean floor, its only means of communication is its constantly flashing lights.

Lanturn
Sword: The light it emits is so bright that it can illuminate the sea’s surface from a depth of over three miles.
Shield: This Pokémon flashes a bright light that blinds its prey. This creates an opening for it to deliver an electrical attack.

Pichu
Sword: Despite its small size, it can zap even adult humans. However, if it does so, it also surprises itself.
Shield: The electric sacs in its cheeks are small. If even a little electricity leaks, it becomes shocked.

Cleffa
Sword: According to local rumors, Cleffa are often seen in places where shooting stars have fallen.
Shield: Because of its unusual, starlike silhouette, people believe that it came here on a meteor.

Igglybuff
Sword: Igglybuff loves to sing. Its marshmallow-like body gives off a faint sweet smell.
Shield: Taking advantage of the softness of its body, Igglybuff moves as if bouncing. Its body turns a deep pink when its temperature rises.

Togepi
Sword: The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly.
Shield: It is considered to be a symbol of good luck. Its shell is said to be filled with happiness.

Togetic
Sword: They say that it will appear before kindhearted, caring people and shower them with happiness.
Shield: It grows dispirited if it is not with kind people. It can float in midair without moving its wings.

Natu
Sword: It is extremely good at climbing tree trunks and likes to eat the new sprouts on the trees.
Shield: Because its wings aren’t yet fully grown, it has to hop to get around. It is always staring at something.

Xatu
Sword: They say that it stays still and quiet because it is seeing both the past and future at the same time.
Shield: This odd Pokémon can see both the past and the future. It eyes the sun’s movement all day.

Bellossom
Sword: Plentiful in the tropics. When it dances, its petals rub together and make a pleasant ringing sound.
Shield: Bellossom gather at times and appear to dance. They say that the dance is a ritual to summon the sun.

Marill
Sword: This Pokémon uses its round tail as a float. The ball of Marill’s tail is filled with nutrients that have been turned into an oil.
Shield: Even after Marill swims in a cold sea, its water-repellent fur dries almost as soon as Marill leaves the water. That’s why this Pokémon is never cold.

Azumarill
Sword: It spends most of its time in the water. On sunny days, Azumarill floats on the surface of the water and sunbathes.
Shield: These Pokémon create air-filled bubbles. When Azurill play in rivers, Azumarill will cover them with these bubbles.

Sudowoodo
Sword: If a tree branch shakes when there is no wind, it’s a Sudowoodo, not a tree. It hides from the rain.
Shield: It disguises itself as a tree to avoid attack. It hates water, so it will disappear if it starts raining.

Politoed
Sword: At nightfall, these Pokémon appear on the shores of lakes. They announce their territorial claims by letting out cries that sound like shouting.
Shield: The cry of a male is louder than that of a female. Male Politoed with deep, menacing voices find more popularity with the opposite gender.

Wooper
Sword: This Pokémon lives in cold water. It will leave the water to search for food when it gets cold outside.
Shield: When walking on land, it covers its body with a poisonous film that keeps its skin from dehydrating.

Quagsire
Sword: It has an easygoing nature. It doesn’t care if it bumps its head on boats and boulders while swimming.
Shield: Its body is always slimy. It often bangs its head on the river bottom as it swims but seems not to care.

Espeon
Sword: By reading air currents, it can predict things such as the weather or its foe’s next move.
Shield: It unleashes psychic power from the orb on its forehead. When its power is exhausted, the orb grows dull and dark.

Umbreon
Sword: When this Pokémon becomes angry, its pores secrete a poisonous sweat, which it sprays at its opponent’s eyes.
Shield: On the night of a full moon, or when it gets excited, the ring patterns on its body glow yellow.

Slowking
Sword: Miraculously, this former Slowpoke’s latent intelligence was drawn out when Shellder poison raced through its brain.
Shield: Slowking can solve any problem presented to it, but no one can understand a thing Slowking says.

Galarian Slowking
Sword: A combination of toxins and the shock of evolving has increased Shellder's intelligence to the point that Shellder now controls Slowking.
Shield: While chanting strange spells, this Pokémon combines its internal toxins with what it's eaten, creating strange potions.

Wobbuffet
Sword: It hates light and shock. If attacked, it inflates its body to pump up its counterstrike.
Shield: To keep its pitch-black tail hidden, it lives quietly in the darkness. It is never first to attack.

Dunsparce
Sword: This Pokémon’s tiny wings have some scientists saying that Dunsparce used to fly through the sky in ancient times.
Shield: The nests Dunsparce live in are mazes of tunnels. They never get lost in their own nests—they can tell where they are by the scent of the dirt.

Steelix
Sword: It is said that if an Onix lives for over 100 years, its composition changes to become diamond-like.
Shield: It is thought its body transformed as a result of iron accumulating internally from swallowing soil.

Qwilfish
Sword: When faced with a larger opponent, it swallows as much water as it can to match the opponent’s size.
Shield: The small spikes covering its body developed from scales. They inject a toxin that causes fainting.

Scizor
Sword: Bulky pincers account for one third of Scizor’s body weight. A single swing of one of these pincers will crush a boulder completely.
Shield: Though its body is slim, Scizor has tremendous attacking power. Even Scizor’s muscles are made of metal.

Shuckle
Sword: It stores berries inside its shell. To avoid attacks, it hides beneath rocks and remains completely still.
Shield: The berries stored in its vaselike shell eventually become a thick, pulpy juice.

Heracross
Sword: Heracross loves sweet sap and will go looking through forests for it. The Pokémon uses its two antennae to pick up scents as it searches.
Shield: This Pokémon takes pride in its strength, which allows it to lift things 100 times heavier than itself with no trouble at all.

Sneasel
Sword: Its paws conceal sharp claws. If attacked, it suddenly extends the claws and startles its enemy.
Shield: It has a cunning yet savage disposition. It waits for parents to leave their nests, and then it sneaks in to steal their eggs.

Swinub
Sword: It rubs its snout on the ground to find and dig up food. It sometimes discovers hot springs.
Shield: If it smells something enticing, it dashes off headlong to find the source of the aroma.

Piloswine
Sword: If it charges at an enemy, the hairs on its back stand up straight. It is very sensitive to sound.
Shield: Although its legs are short, its rugged hooves prevent it from slipping, even on icy ground.

Corsola
Sword: It will regrow any branches that break off its head. People keep particularly beautiful Corsola branches as charms to promote safe childbirth.
Shield: These Pokémon live in warm seas. In prehistoric times, many lived in the oceans around the Galar region as well.

Galarian Corsola
Sword: Watch your step when wandering areas oceans once covered. What looks like a stone could be this Pokémon, and it will curse you if you kick it.
Shield: Sudden climate change wiped out this ancient kind of Corsola. This Pokémon absorbs others' life-force through its branches.

Remoraid
Sword: The water they shoot from their mouths can hit moving prey from more than 300 feet away.
Shield: Using its dorsal fin as a suction pad, it clings to a Mantine’s underside to scavenge for leftovers.

Octillery
Sword: It has a tendency to want to be in holes. It prefers rock crags or pots and sprays ink from them before attacking.
Shield: It traps enemies with its suction-cupped tentacles, then smashes them with its rock-hard head.

Delibird
Sword: It carries food all day long. There are tales about lost people who were saved by the food it had.
Shield: It has a generous habit of sharing its food with people and Pokémon, so it’s always scrounging around for more food.

Mantine
Sword: If it builds up enough speed swimming, it can jump out above the waves and glide for over 300 feet.
Shield: As it majestically swims, it doesn’t care if Remoraid attach to it to scavenge for its leftovers.

Skarmory
Sword: The pointed feathers of these Pokémon are sharper than swords. Skarmory and Corviknight fight viciously over territory.
Shield: People fashion swords from Skarmory’s shed feathers, so this Pokémon is a popular element in heraldic designs.

Kingdra
Sword: With the arrival of a storm at sea, this Pokémon will show itself on the surface. When a Kingdra and a Dragonite meet, a fierce battle ensues.
Shield: Scales shed by this Pokémon have such a splendorous gleam to them that they’ve been given to royalty as gifts.

Porygon2
Sword: This is a Porygon that was updated with special data. Porygon2 develops itself by learning about many different subjects all on its own.
Shield: After artificial intelligence was implemented in Porygon2, the Pokémon began using a strange language that only other Porygon2 understand.

Tyrogue
Sword: It is always bursting with energy. To make itself stronger, it keeps on fighting even if it loses.
Shield: Even though it is small, it can’t be ignored because it will slug any handy target without warning.

Hitmontop
Sword: It launches kicks while spinning. If it spins at high speed, it may bore its way into the ground.
Shield: After doing a handstand to throw off the opponent’s timing, it presents its fancy kick moves.

Smoochum
Sword: If its face gets even slightly dirty, Smoochum will bathe immediately. But if its body gets dirty, Smoochum doesn’t really seem to care.
Shield: This is a very curious Pokémon. Smoochum decides what it likes and dislikes by touching things with its lips.

Elekid
Sword: When a storm approaches, this Pokémon gets restless. Once Elekid hears the sound of thunder, it gets full-on rowdy.
Shield: It’s not good at storing electricity yet. This Pokémon sneaks into people’s homes, looking for electrical outlets to eat electricity from.

Magby
Sword: This Pokémon is still small and timid. Whenever Magby gets excited or surprised, flames leak from its mouth and its nose.
Shield: This Pokémon makes its home near volcanoes. At the end of the day, Magby soaks in magma, resting and recovering from the day’s fatigue.

Miltank
Sword: Miltank produces highly nutritious milk, so it’s been supporting the lives of people and other Pokémon since ancient times.
Shield: This Pokémon needs to be milked every day, or else it will fall ill. The flavor of Miltank milk changes with the seasons.

Blissey
Sword: Whenever a Blissey finds a weakened Pokémon, it will share its egg and offer its care until the other Pokémon is all better.
Shield: Blissey lays mysterious eggs that are filled with happiness. It’s said that anyone who eats a Blissey egg will start acting kindly to all others.

Larvitar
Sword: Born deep underground, it comes aboveground and becomes a pupa once it has finished eating the surrounding soil.
Shield: It feeds on soil. After it has eaten a large mountain, it will fall asleep so it can grow.

Pupitar
Sword: Even sealed in its shell, it can move freely. Hard and fast, it has outstanding destructive power.
Shield: It will not stay still, even while it’s a pupa. It already has arms and legs under its solid shell.

Tyranitar
Sword: Its body can’t be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is very eager to make challenges against enemies.
Shield: The quakes caused when it walks make even great mountains crumble and change the surrounding terrain.

Celebi
Sword: This Pokémon has the ability to move through time. Records describing it as a forest deity can be found from many different eras.
Shield: This Pokémon traveled through time to come from the future. It bolsters grass and trees with its own strength, and it can heal wounds, too.

Zigzagoon
Sword: It marks its territory by rubbing its bristly fur on trees. This variety of Zigzagoon is friendlier and calmer than the kind native to Galar.
Shield: Zigzagoon that adapted to regions outside Galar acquired this appearance. If you’ve lost something, this Pokémon can likely find it.

Galarian Zigzagoon
Sword: Its restlessness has it constantly running around. If it sees another Pokémon, it will purposely run into them in order to start a fight.
Shield: Thought to be the oldest form of Zigzagoon, it moves in zigzags and wreaks havoc upon its surroundings.

Linoone
Sword: Its fur is strong and supple. Shaving brushes made with shed Linoone hairs are highly prized.
Shield: It uses its explosive speed and razor-sharp claws to bring down prey. Running along winding paths is not its strong suit.

Galarian Linoone
Sword: It uses its long tongue to taunt opponents. Once the opposition is enraged, this Pokémon hurls itself at the opponent, tackling them forcefully.
Shield: This very aggressive Pokémon will recklessly challenge opponents stronger than itself.

Lotad
Sword: It searches about for clean water. If it does not drink water for too long, the leaf on its head wilts.
Shield: Its leaf grew too large for it to live on land. That is how it began to live floating in the water.

Lombre
Sword: It is nocturnal and becomes active at nightfall. It feeds on aquatic mosses that grow in the riverbed.
Shield: It lives at the water’s edge where it is sunny. It sleeps on a bed of water grass by day and becomes active at night.

Ludicolo
Sword: The rhythm of bright, festive music activates Ludicolo’s cells, making it more powerful.
Shield: If it hears festive music, it begins moving in rhythm in order to amplify its power.

Seedot
Sword: If it remains still, it looks just like a real nut. It delights in surprising foraging Pokémon.
Shield: It attaches itself to a tree branch using the top of its head. Strong winds can sometimes make it fall.

Nuzleaf
Sword: It lives deep in forests. With the leaf on its head, it makes a flute whose song makes listeners uneasy.
Shield: They live in holes bored in large trees. The sound of Nuzleaf’s grass flute fills listeners with dread.

Shiftry
Sword: A Pokémon that was feared as a forest guardian. It can read the foe’s mind and take preemptive action.
Shield: It lives quietly in the deep forest. It is said to create chilly winter winds with the fans it holds.

Wingull
Sword: It makes its nest on sheer cliffs. Riding the sea breeze, it glides up into the expansive skies.
Shield: It soars on updrafts without flapping its wings. It makes a nest on sheer cliffs at the sea’s edge.

Pelipper
Sword: It is a messenger of the skies, carrying small Pokémon and eggs to safety in its bill.
Shield: Skimming the water’s surface, it dips its large bill in the sea, scoops up food and water, and carries it.

Ralts
Sword: It is highly attuned to the emotions of people and Pokémon. It hides if it senses hostility.
Shield: If its horns capture the warm feelings of people or Pokémon, its body warms up slightly.

Kirlia
Sword: If its Trainer becomes happy, it overflows with energy, dancing joyously while spinning about.
Shield: It has a psychic power that enables it to distort the space around it and see into the future.

Gardevoir
Sword: It has the power to predict the future. Its power peaks when it is protecting its Trainer.
Shield: To protect its Trainer, it will expend all its psychic power to create a small black hole.

Nincada
Sword: Because it lived almost entirely underground, it is nearly blind. It uses its antennae instead.
Shield: It can sometimes live underground for more than 10 years. It absorbs nutrients from the roots of trees.

Ninjask
Sword: Its cry leaves a lasting headache if heard for too long. It moves so quickly that it is almost invisible.
Shield: This Pokémon is so quick, it is said to be able to avoid any attack. It loves to feed on tree sap.

Shedinja
Sword: A most peculiar Pokémon that somehow appears in a Poké Ball when a Nincada evolves.
Shield: A strange Pokémon—it flies without moving its wings, has a hollow shell for a body, and does not breathe.

Whismur
Sword: The cry of a Whismur is over 100 decibels. If you’re close to a Whismur when it lets out a cry, you’ll be stuck with an all-day headache.
Shield: When Whismur cries, the sound of its own voice startles it, making the Pokémon cry even louder. It cries until it’s exhausted, then it falls asleep.

Loudred
Sword: Loudred’s ears serve as speakers, and they can put out sound waves powerful enough to blow away a house.
Shield: The force of this Pokémon’s loud voice isn’t just the sound—it’s also the wave of air pressure that blows opponents away and damages them.

Exploud
Sword: In the past, people would use the loud voices of these Pokémon as a means of communication between distant cities.
Shield: This Pokémon can do more than just shout. To communicate with others of its kind, it’ll emit all sorts of sounds from the holes in its body.

Azurill
Sword: The ball on Azurill’s tail bounces like a rubber ball, and it’s full of the nutrients the Pokémon needs to grow.
Shield: Although Azurill are normally docile, an angry one will swing around the big ball on its tail and try to smash its opponents.

Sableye
Sword: This Pokémon is feared. When its gemstone eyes begin to glow with a sinister shine, it’s believed that Sableye will steal people’s spirits away.
Shield: It feeds on gemstone crystals. In darkness, its eyes sparkle with the glitter of jewels.

Mawile
Sword: It uses its docile-looking face to lull foes into complacency, then bites with its huge, relentless jaws.
Shield: It chomps with its gaping mouth. Its huge jaws are actually steel horns that have been transformed.

Aron
Sword: It eats iron ore—and sometimes railroad tracks— to build up the steel armor that protects its body.
Shield: When Aron evolves, its steel armor peels off. In ancient times, people would collect Aron’s shed armor and make good use of it in their daily lives.

Lairon
Sword: Lairon live in mountains brimming with spring water and iron ore, so these Pokémon often came into conflict with humans in the past.
Shield: During territorial disputes, Lairon fight by slamming into each other. Close inspection of their steel armor reveals scratches and dents.

Aggron
Sword: Aggron has a horn sharp enough to perforate thick iron sheets. It brings down its opponents by ramming into them horn first.
Shield: Long ago, there was a king who wore a helmet meant to resemble the head of an Aggron. He was trying to channel the Pokémon’s strength.

Electrike
Sword: It stores static electricity in its fur for discharging. It gives off sparks if a storm approaches.
Shield: It stores electricity in its fur. It gives off sparks from all over its body in seasons when the air is dry.

Manectric
Sword: It stimulates its own muscles with electricity, so it can move quickly. It eases its soreness with electricity, too, so it can recover quickly as well.
Shield: It rarely appears before people. It is said to nest where lightning has fallen.

Roselia
Sword: Its flowers give off a relaxing fragrance. The stronger its aroma, the healthier the Roselia is.
Shield: It uses the different poisons in each hand separately when it attacks. The stronger its aroma, the healthier it is.

Carvanha
Sword: It won’t attack while it’s alone—not even if it spots prey. Instead, it waits for other Carvanha to join it, and then the Pokémon attack as a group.
Shield: These Pokémon have sharp fangs and powerful jaws. Sailors avoid Carvanha dens at all costs.

Sharpedo
Sword: As soon as it catches the scent of prey, Sharpedo will jet seawater from its backside, hurtling toward the target to attack at 75 mph.
Shield: This Pokémon is known as the Bully of the Sea. Any ship entering the waters Sharpedo calls home will be attacked—no exceptions.

Wailmer
Sword: It shows off by spraying jets of seawater from the nostrils above its eyes. It eats a solid ton of Wishiwashi every day.
Shield: When it sucks in a large volume of seawater, it becomes like a big, bouncy ball. It eats a ton of food daily.

Wailord
Sword: It can sometimes knock out opponents with the shock created by breaching and crashing its big body onto the water.
Shield: Its immense size is the reason for its popularity. Wailord watching is a favorite sightseeing activity in various parts of the world.

Torkoal
Sword: It burns coal inside its shell for energy. It blows out black soot if it is endangered.
Shield: You find abandoned coal mines full of them. They dig tirelessly in search of coal.

Trapinch
Sword: Its nest is a sloped, bowl-like pit in the desert. Once something has fallen in, there is no escape.
Shield: It makes an inescapable conical pit and lies in wait at the bottom for prey to come tumbling down.

Vibrava
Sword: The ultrasonic waves it generates by rubbing its two wings together cause severe headaches.
Shield: To help make its wings grow, it dissolves quantities of prey in its digestive juices and guzzles them down every day.

Flygon
Sword: This Pokémon hides in the heart of sandstorms it creates and seldom appears where people can see it.
Shield: It is nicknamed the Desert Spirit because the flapping of its wings sounds like a woman singing.

Swablu
Sword: Its cottony wings are full of air, making them light and fluffy to the touch. Swablu takes diligent care of its wings.
Shield: Since Swablu looks like a cumulus cloud, foes can have a hard time finding it. Apparently its wings turned white over many generations.

Altaria
Sword: As it flies in a calm and relaxed manner, Altaria performs a humming song that would enrapture any audience.
Shield: This Pokémon has a kind disposition, but if it’s provoked, it will threaten opponents with shrill cries before attacking them without mercy.

Lunatone
Sword: The phase of the moon apparently has some effect on its power. It’s active on the night of a full moon.
Shield: It was discovered at the site of a meteor strike 40 years ago. Its stare can lull its foes to sleep.

Solrock
Sword: When it rotates itself, it gives off light similar to the sun, thus blinding its foes.
Shield: Solar energy is the source of its power, so it is strong during the daytime. When it spins, its body shines.

Barboach
Sword: Its slimy body is hard to grasp. In one region, it is said to have been born from hardened mud.
Shield: It probes muddy riverbeds with its two long whiskers. A slimy film protects its body.

Whiscash
Sword: It makes its nest at the bottom of swamps. It will eat anything—if it is alive, Whiscash will eat it.
Shield: It claims a large swamp to itself. If a foe comes near it, it sets off tremors by thrashing around.

Corphish
Sword: No matter how dirty the water in the river, it will adapt and thrive. It has a strong will to survive.
Shield: It was originally a Pokémon from afar that escaped to the wild. It can adapt to the dirtiest river.

Crawdaunt
Sword: A rough customer that wildly flails its giant claws. It is said to be extremely hard to raise.
Shield: A brutish Pokémon that loves to battle. It will crash itself into any foe that approaches its nest.

Baltoy
Sword: It moves while spinning around on its single foot. Some Baltoy have been seen spinning on their heads.
Shield: It was discovered in ancient ruins. While moving, it constantly spins. It stands on one foot even when asleep.

Claydol
Sword: This mysterious Pokémon started life as an ancient clay figurine made over 20,000 years ago.
Shield: It appears to have been born from clay dolls made by ancient people. It uses telekinesis to float and move.

Lileep
Sword: This Pokémon was restored from a fossil. Lileep once lived in warm seas that existed approximately 100,000,000 years ago.
Shield: Lileep clings to rocks on the seabed. When prey comes close, this Pokémon entangles it with petallike tentacles.

Cradily
Sword: It has short legs and can’t walk very fast, but its neck and tentacles can extend to over three times their usual length to nab distant prey.
Shield: Once Cradily catches prey in its tentacles, it digests them whole and absorbs their nutrients.

Anorith
Sword: This Pokémon was restored from a fossil. Anorith lived in the ocean about 100,000,000 years ago, hunting with its pair of claws.
Shield: Anorith can swim swiftly by pulling its eight wings through the water like oars on a boat. This Pokémon is an ancestor of modern bug Pokémon.

Armaldo
Sword: After evolution, this Pokémon emerged onto land. Its lower body has become stronger, and blows from its tail are devastating.
Shield: Though it lives on land, it’s also a good swimmer. It dives into the ocean in search of prey, using its sharp claws to take down its quarry.

Feebas
Sword: Although unattractive and unpopular, this Pokémon’s marvelous vitality has made it a subject of research.
Shield: It is a shabby and ugly Pokémon. However, it is very hardy and can survive on little water.

Milotic
Sword: Milotic has provided inspiration to many artists. It has even been referred to as the most beautiful Pokémon of all.
Shield: It’s said that a glimpse of a Milotic and its beauty will calm any hostile emotions you’re feeling.

Duskull
Sword: If it finds bad children who won’t listen to their parents, it will spirit them away—or so it’s said.
Shield: Making itself invisible, it silently sneaks up to prey. It has the ability to slip through thick walls.

Dusclops
Sword: Its body is entirely hollow. When it opens its mouth, it sucks everything in as if it were a black hole.
Shield: It seeks drifting will-o’-the-wisps and sucks them into its empty body. What happens inside is a mystery.

Absol
Sword: Swift as the wind, Absol races through fields and mountains. Its curved, bow-like horn is acutely sensitive to the warning signs of natural disasters.
Shield: Because of this Pokémon’s ability to detect danger, people mistook Absol as a bringer of doom.

Wynaut
Sword: It tends to move in a pack. Individuals squash against one another to toughen their spirits.
Shield: It tends to move in a pack with others. They cluster in a tight group to sleep in a cave.

Snorunt
Sword: It’s said that if they are seen at midnight, they’ll cause heavy snow. They eat snow and ice to survive.
Shield: It can only survive in cold areas. It bounces happily around, even in environments as cold as −150 degrees Fahrenheit.

Glalie
Sword: It has a body of ice that won’t melt, even with fire. It can instantly freeze moisture in the atmosphere.
Shield: It can instantly freeze moisture in the atmosphere. It uses this power to freeze its foes.

Spheal
Sword: This Pokémon’s body is covered in blubber and impressively round. It’s faster for Spheal to roll around than walk.
Shield: As it drifts among the waves, Spheal probes the sea. As soon as it spots prey, it informs the Walrein in its herd.

Sealeo
Sword: Sealeo live on top of drift ice. They go swimming when they’re on the hunt, seeking out their prey by scent.
Shield: This Pokémon has a habit of spinning round things on its nose, whether those things are Poké Balls or Spheal.

Walrein
Sword: Walrein form herds of 20 to 30 individuals. When a threat appears, the herd’s leader will protect the group with its life.
Shield: Walrein’s tusks keep growing throughout its life. Tusks broken in battle will grow back to their usual impressive size in a year.

Relicanth
Sword: Rock-hard scales and oil-filled swim bladders allow this Pokémon to survive the intense water pressure of the deep sea.
Shield: This Pokémon was discovered during deep-sea exploration. Its appearance hasn’t changed in 100,000,000 years, so it’s called a living fossil.

Bagon
Sword: Bagon jumps off cliffs every day, trying to grow stronger so that someday it will be able to fly.
Shield: Bagon is a solitary Pokémon that doesn’t form groups with others of its kind. It also has a head hard enough to cleave a boulder in one strike.

Shelgon
Sword: This Pokémon has covered its body in a hard shell that has the same composition as bone. Shelgon stores energy for evolution.
Shield: Shelgon ignores its hunger entirely, never eating any food. Apparently, Shelgon will evolve once all its energy stores are used up.

Salamence
Sword: Salamence is an unusual Pokémon in that it was able to evolve a body with wings just by constantly wishing to be able to fly.
Shield: While basking in the joy of flight generally keeps this Pokémon in high spirits, Salamence turns into an uncontrollable menace if something angers it.

Beldum
Sword: From its rear, Beldum emits a magnetic force that rapidly pulls opponents in. They get skewered on Beldum’s sharp claws.
Shield: The cells in this Pokémon’s body are composed of magnetic material. Instead of blood, magnetic forces flow through Beldum’s body.

Metang
Sword: Two Beldum have become stuck together via their own magnetic forces. With two brains, the resulting Metang has doubled psychic powers.
Shield: Using magnetic forces to stay aloft, this Pokémon flies at high speeds, weaving through harsh mountain terrain in pursuit of prey.

Metagross
Sword: Because the magnetic powers of these Pokémon get stronger in freezing temperatures, Metagross living on snowy mountains are full of energy.
Shield: Metagross is the result of the fusion of two Metang. This Pokémon defeats its opponents through use of its supercomputer-level brain.

Regirock
Sword: Every bit of Regirock’s body is made of stone. As parts of its body erode, this Pokémon sticks rocks to itself to repair what’s been lost.
Shield: Cutting-edge technology was used to study the internals of this Pokémon’s rock body, but nothing was found—not even a brain or a heart.

Regice
Sword: With cold air that can reach temperatures as low as −328 degrees Fahrenheit, Regice instantly freezes any creature that approaches it.
Shield: This Pokémon’s body is made of solid ice. It’s said that Regice was born beneath thick ice in the ice age.

Registeel
Sword: Registeel’s body is made of a strange material that is flexible enough to stretch and shrink but also more durable than any metal.
Shield: It’s rumored that this Pokémon was born deep underground in the planet’s mantle and that it emerged onto the surface 10,000 years ago.

Jirachi
Sword: Once every 1,000 years, the singing of a pure voice will rouse this Pokémon from its near-perpetual slumber. It wakes for only seven days.
Shield: It’s believed that when this Pokémon wakes from its 1,000-year slumber, it will grant any wishes written on the notes attached to its head.

Shinx
Sword: This Pokémon generates electricity by contracting its muscles. Excited trembling is a sign that Shinx is generating a tremendous amount of electricity.
Shield: Electricity makes this Pokémon’s fur glow. Shinx sends signals to others of its kind by shaking the tip of its tail while the tail tip is shining brightly.

Luxio
Sword: By joining its tail with that of another Luxio, this Pokémon can receive some of the other Luxio’s electricity and power up its own electric blasts.
Shield: Upon encountering an opponent, this Pokémon prepares for battle by extending its claws, which can put out 1,000,000 volts of electricity.

Luxray
Sword: Luxray can see through solid objects. It will instantly spot prey trying to hide behind walls, even if the walls are thick.
Shield: Seeing through solid objects uses up a lot of Luxray’s electricity, so the Pokémon sleeps for long periods of time to store up energy.

Budew
Sword: The pollen it releases contains poison. If this Pokémon is raised on clean water, the poison’s toxicity is increased.
Shield: This Pokémon is highly sensitive to temperature changes. When its bud starts to open, that means spring is right around the corner.

Roserade
Sword: After captivating opponents with its sweet scent, it lashes them with its thorny whips.
Shield: The poison in its right hand is quick acting. The poison in its left hand is slow acting. Both are life threatening.

Combee
Sword: The members of the trio spend all their time together. Each one has a slightly different taste in nectar.
Shield: It ceaselessly gathers nectar from sunrise to sundown, all for the sake of Vespiquen and the swarm.

Vespiquen
Sword: It skillfully commands its grubs in battles with its enemies. The grubs are willing to risk their lives to defend Vespiquen.
Shield: Vespiquen that give off more pheromones have larger swarms of Combee attendants.

Cherubi
Sword: It nimbly dashes about to avoid getting pecked by bird Pokémon that would love to make off with its small, nutrient-rich storage ball.
Shield: The deeper a Cherubi’s red, the more nutrients it has stockpiled in its body. And the sweeter and tastier its small ball!

Cherrim (Overcast Form)
Sword: As a bud, it barely moves. It sits still, placidly waiting for sunlight to appear.
Shield: Its folded petals are pretty tough. Bird Pokémon can peck at them all they want, and Cherrim won’t be bothered at all.

Cherrim (Sunshine Form)
Sword: After absorbing plenty of sunlight, Cherrim takes this form. It's full of energy while it's like this, and its liveliness will go on until sundown.
Shield: The faint scent that emanates from its full blossom entices bug Pokémon to it.

Shellos (West Sea)
Sword: This Pokémon’s habitat shapes its physique. According to some theories, life in warm ocean waters causes this variation to develop.
Shield: Subjecting this Pokémon to a strong force causes it to secrete a strange purple fluid. Though harmless, the fluid is awfully sticky.

Shellos (East Sea)
Sword: There's speculation that its appearance is determined by what it eats, but the truth remains elusive.
Shield: Its appearance changes depending on the environment. One theory suggests that living in cold seas causes Shellos to take on this form.

Gastrodon (West Sea)
Sword: Its search for food sometimes leads it onto land, where it leaves behind a sticky trail of slime as it passes through.
Shield: The softness of its body helps disperse the force of impacts, so although its body is uncommonly squishy, it’s also surprisingly resilient.

Gastrodon (East Sea)
Sword: It secretes a purple fluid to deter enemies. This fluid isn't poisonous—instead, it's super sticky, and once it sticks, it's very hard to unstick.
Shield: Its body is covered in a sticky slime. It's very susceptible to dehydration, so it can't spend too much time on land.

Drifloon
Sword: Perhaps seeking company, it approaches children. However, it often quickly runs away again when the children play too roughly with it.
Shield: The gathering of many souls gave rise to this Pokémon. During humid seasons, they seem to appear in abundance.

Drifblim
Sword: Some say this Pokémon is a collection of souls burdened with regrets, silently drifting through the dusk.
Shield: It grabs people and Pokémon and carries them off somewhere. Where do they go? Nobody knows.

Buneary
Sword: If both of Buneary’s ears are rolled up, something is wrong with its body or mind. It’s a sure sign the Pokémon is in need of care.
Shield: Buneary can attack by rolling up their ears and then striking with the force created by unrolling them. This attack becomes stronger with training.

Lopunny
Sword: Lopunny is constantly monitoring its surroundings. If danger approaches, this Pokémon responds with superdestructive kicks.
Shield: Once hot seasons are over, Lopunny’s coat will be replaced with fur that holds a lot of insulating air in preparation for colder weather.

Stunky
Sword: From its rear, it sprays a foul-smelling liquid at opponents. It aims for their faces, and it can hit them from over 16 feet away.
Shield: If it lifts its tail and points its rear at you, beware. It’s about to spray you with a fluid stinky enough to make you faint.

Skuntank
Sword: In its belly, it reserves stinky fluid that it shoots from its tail during battle. As this Pokémon’s diet varies, so does the stench of its fluid.
Shield: It digs holes in the ground to make its nest. The stench of the fluid it lets fly from the tip of its tail is extremely potent.

Bronzor
Sword: It appears in ancient ruins. The pattern on its body doesn’t come from any culture in the Galar region, so it remains shrouded in mystery.
Shield: Polishing Bronzor to a shine makes its surface reflect the truth, according to common lore. Be that as it may, Bronzor hates being polished.

Bronzong
Sword: Some believe it to be a deity that summons rain clouds. When angered, it lets out a warning cry that rings out like the tolling of a bell.
Shield: Many scientists suspect that this Pokémon originated outside the Galar region, based on the patterns on its body.

Bonsly
Sword: It expels both sweat and tears from its eyes. The sweat is a little salty, while the tears have a slight bitterness.
Shield: This Pokémon lives in dry, rocky areas. As its green spheres dry out, their dull luster increases.

Mime Jr.
Sword: It mimics everyone it sees, but it puts extra effort into copying the graceful dance steps of Mr. Rime as practice.
Shield: It looks for a Mr. Rime that’s a good dancer and carefully copies the Mr. Rime’s steps like an apprentice.

Happiny
Sword: Mimicking Chansey, Happiny will place an egg-shaped stone in its belly pouch. Happiny will treasure this stone.
Shield: Happiny’s willing to lend its precious round stone to those it’s friendly with, but if the stone isn’t returned, Happiny will cry and throw a tantrum.

Spiritomb
Sword: Exactly 108 spirits gathered to become this Pokémon. Apparently there are some ill-natured spirits in the mix.
Shield: All Spiritomb’s mischief and misdeeds compelled a traveler to use a mysterious spell to bind Spiritomb to an odd keystone.

Gible
Sword: Gible prefers to stay in narrow holes in the sides of caves heated by geothermal energy. This way, Gible can stay warm even during a blizzard.
Shield: Gible attacks anything that moves, and it drags whatever it catches into the crevice that is its lair. Despite the big mouth, Gible’s stomach is small.

Gabite
Sword: This Pokémon emits ultrasonic waves from a protrusion on either side of its head to probe pitch-dark caves.
Shield: Jewels are buried in the caves these Pokémon nest in, but you’ll be torn apart by claws and fangs the moment you enter one of these caves.

Garchomp
Sword: Garchomp makes its home in volcanic mountains. It flies through the sky as fast as a jet airplane, hunting down as much prey as it can.
Shield: Garchomp is fast both underground and above. It can bring down prey and return to its den before its body has chilled from being outside.

Munchlax
Sword: Stuffing itself with vast amounts of food is its only concern. Whether the food is rotten or fresh, yummy or tasteless—it does not care.
Shield: It stores food beneath its fur. It might share just one bite, but only if it really trusts you.

Riolu
Sword: It’s exceedingly energetic, with enough stamina to keep running all through the night. Taking it for walks can be a challenging experience.
Shield: It can use waves called auras to gauge how others are feeling. These same waves can also tell this Pokémon about the state of the environment.

Lucario
Sword: It controls waves known as auras, which are powerful enough to pulverize huge rocks. It uses these waves to take down its prey.
Shield: It can tell what people are thinking. Only Trainers who have justice in their hearts can earn this Pokémon’s trust.

Hippopotas
Sword: It moves through the sands with its mouth open, swallowing sand along with its prey. It gets rid of the sand by spouting it from its nose.
Shield: This Pokémon is active during the day and passes the cold desert nights burrowed snugly into the sand.

Hippowdon
Sword: Stones can get stuck in the ports on their bodies. Dwebble help dislodge such stones, so Hippowdon look after these Pokémon.
Shield: When roused to violence by its rage, it spews out the quantities of sand it has swallowed and whips up a sandstorm.

Skorupi
Sword: After burrowing into the sand, it waits patiently for prey to come near. This Pokémon and Sizzlipede share common descent.
Shield: It attacks using the claws on its tail. Once locked in its grip, its prey is unable to move as this Pokémon’s poison seeps in.

Drapion
Sword: Its poison is potent, but it rarely sees use. This Pokémon prefers to use physical force instead, going on rampages with its car-crushing strength.
Shield: It’s so vicious that it’s called the Sand Demon. Yet when confronted by Hippowdon, Drapion keeps a low profile and will never pick a fight.

Croagunk
Sword: It makes frightening noises with its poison-filled cheek sacs. When opponents flinch, Croagunk hits them with a poison jab.
Shield: Once diluted, its poison becomes medicinal. This Pokémon came into popularity after a pharmaceutical company chose it as a mascot.

Toxicroak
Sword: It bounces toward opponents and gouges them with poisonous claws. No more than a scratch is needed to knock out its adversaries.
Shield: It booms out a victory croak when its prey goes down in defeat. This Pokémon and Seismitoad are related species.

Mantyke
Sword: Mantyke living in Galar seem to be somewhat sluggish. The colder waters of the seas in this region may be the cause.
Shield: It swims along with a school of Remoraid, and they’ll all fight together to repel attackers.

Snover
Sword: It lives on snowy mountains. It sinks its legs into the snow to absorb water and keep its own temperature down.
Shield: The berries that grow around its belly are like ice pops. Galarian Darumaka absolutely love these berries.

Abomasnow
Sword: If it sees any packs of Darumaka going after Snover, it chases them off, swinging its sizable arms like hammers.
Shield: This Pokémon is known to bring blizzards. A shake of its massive body is enough to cause whiteout conditions.

Weavile
Sword: They attack their quarry in packs. Prey as large as Mamoswine easily fall to the teamwork of a group of Weavile.
Shield: With its claws, it leaves behind signs for its friends to find. The number of distinct signs is said to be over 500.

Magnezone
Sword: Some say that Magnezone receives signals from space via the antenna on its head and that it’s being controlled by some mysterious being.
Shield: It’s thought that a special magnetic field changed the molecular structure of this Pokémon’s body, and that’s what caused the Pokémon’s evolution.

Lickilicky
Sword: Lickilicky’s strange tongue can stretch to many times the length of its body. No one has figured out how Lickilicky’s tongue can stretch so far.
Shield: Lickilicky can do just about anything with its tongue, which is as dexterous as the human hand. In contrast, Lickilicky’s use of its fingers is clumsy.

Rhyperior
Sword: It can load up to three projectiles per arm into the holes in its hands. What launches out of those holes could be either rocks or Roggenrola.
Shield: It relies on its carapace to deflect incoming attacks and throw its enemy off balance. As soon as that happens, it drives its drill into the foe.

Tangrowth
Sword: Tangrowth has two arms that it can extend as it pleases. Recent research has shown that these arms are, in fact, bundles of vines.
Shield: Vine growth is accelerated for Tangrowth living in warm climates. If the vines grow long, Tangrowth shortens them by tearing parts of them off.

Electivire
Sword: The amount of electrical energy this Pokémon produces is proportional to the rate of its pulse. The voltage jumps while Electivire is battling.
Shield: In terms of electrical-energy output, Electivire is one of the best among all Electric Pokémon. It discharges high-voltage currents from its tails.

Magmortar
Sword: When Magmortar inhales deeply, the fire burning in its belly intensifies, rising in temperature to over 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shield: Living in the crater of a volcano has caused this Pokémon’s body to resemble its environment— it has an organ similar to a magma chamber.

Togekiss
Sword: These Pokémon are never seen anywhere near conflict or turmoil. In recent times, they’ve hardly been seen at all.
Shield: Known as a bringer of blessings, it’s been depicted on good-luck charms since ancient times.

Leafeon
Sword: Galarians favor the distinctive aroma that drifts from this Pokémon’s leaves. There’s a popular perfume made using that scent.
Shield: This Pokémon’s tail is blade sharp, with a fantastic cutting edge that can slice right though large trees.

Glaceon
Sword: Any who become captivated by the beauty of the snowfall that Glaceon creates will be frozen before they know it.
Shield: The coldness emanating from Glaceon causes powdery snow to form, making it quite a popular Pokémon at ski resorts.

Mamoswine
Sword: This Pokémon can be spotted in wall paintings from as far back as 10,000 years ago. For a while, it was thought to have gone extinct.
Shield: It looks strong, and that’s exactly what it is. As the weather grows colder, its ice tusks grow longer, thicker, and more impressive.

Porygon-Z
Sword: Porygon-Z had a program installed to allow it to move between dimensions, but the program also caused instability in Porygon-Z’s behavior.
Shield: Some say an additional program made this Pokémon evolve, but even academics can’t agree on whether Porygon-Z is really an evolution.

Gallade
Sword: True to its honorable-warrior image, it uses the blades on its elbows only in defense of something or someone.
Shield: Sharply attuned to others’ wishes for help, this Pokémon seeks out those in need and aids them in battle.

Dusknoir
Sword: At the bidding of transmissions from the spirit world, it steals people and Pokémon away. No one knows whether it has a will of its own.
Shield: With the mouth on its belly, Dusknoir swallows its target whole. The soul is the only thing eaten— Dusknoir disgorges the body before departing.

Froslass
Sword: After a woman met her end on a snowy mountain, her regrets lingered on. From them, this Pokémon was born. Its favorite food is frozen souls.
Shield: It spits out cold air of nearly −60 degrees Fahrenheit to freeze its quarry. It brings frozen prey back to its lair and neatly lines them up.

Rotom
Sword: One boy’s invention led to the development of many different machines that take advantage of Rotom’s unique capabilities.
Shield: With a body made of plasma, it can inhabit all sorts of machines. It loves to surprise others.

Heat Rotom
Sword: This Rotom has possessed a convection microwave oven that uses a special motor. It also has a flair for manipulating flames.
Shield: This form of Rotom enjoys making mischief by turning up the heat. It will gleefully burn your favorite outfit.

Wash Rotom
Sword: This form of Rotom enjoys coming up with water-based pranks. Be careful with it if you don't want your room flooded.
Shield: This Rotom has possessed a washing machine that uses a special motor. It blasts out water to get enemies to back down.

Frost Rotom
Sword: Rotom assumes this form when it takes over a refrigerator powered by a special motor. It battles by spewing cold air.
Shield: When it's like this, Rotom likes to play pranks that are freezing cold. You may find it's turned the bath you just filled to solid ice!

Fan Rotom
Sword: In this form, Rotom applies its new power over wind to its love of pranks. It will happily blow away any important documents it can find.
Shield: This Rotom has taken over a fan that has a special motor. Its gusts of wind blow its opponents away!

Mow Rotom
Sword: This is Rotom after it's seized control of a lawn mower that has a special motor. As it mows down grass, it scatters the clippings everywhere.
Shield: In this form, Rotom focuses its antics on plants. Any flowers you were growing are going to get mowed down.

Regigigas
Sword: All over the world, there are legends that tell of Regigigas creating other Pokémon in its own image.
Shield: It's said that Regigigas created other Pokémon from many different materials before it moved the continents to where they are today.

Lillipup
Sword: This Pokémon is courageous but also cautious. It uses the soft fur covering its face to collect information about its surroundings.
Shield: This Pokémon is far brighter than the average child, and Lillipup won’t forget the love it receives or any abuse it suffers.

Herdier
Sword: Herdier is a very smart and friendly Pokémon. So much so that there’s a theory that Herdier was the first Pokémon to partner with people.
Shield: The black fur that covers this Pokémon’s body is dense and springy. Even sharp fangs bounce right off.

Stoutland
Sword: These Pokémon seem to enjoy living with humans. Even a Stoutland caught in the wild will warm up to people in about three days.
Shield: Stoutland is immensely proud of its impressive moustache. It’s said that moustache length is what determines social standing among this species.

Purrloin
Sword: It steals things from people just to amuse itself with their frustration. A rivalry exists between this Pokémon and Nickit.
Shield: Opponents that get drawn in by its adorable behavior come away with stinging scratches from its claws and stinging pride from its laughter.

Liepard
Sword: Don’t be fooled by its gorgeous fur and elegant figure. This is a moody and vicious Pokémon.
Shield: This stealthy Pokémon sneaks up behind prey without making any sound at all. It competes with Thievul for territory.

Munna
Sword: Late at night, it appears beside people’s pillows. As it feeds on dreams, the patterns on its body give off a faint glow.
Shield: It eats dreams and releases mist. The mist is pink when it’s eating a good dream, and black when it’s eating a nightmare.

Musharna
Sword: When dark mists emanate from its body, don’t get too near. If you do, your nightmares will become reality.
Shield: It drowses and dreams all the time. It’s best to leave it be if it’s just woken up, as it’s a terrible grump when freshly roused from sleep.

Pidove
Sword: Where people go, these Pokémon follow. If you’re scattering food for them, be careful— several hundred of them can gather at once.
Shield: It’s forgetful and not very bright, but many Trainers love it anyway for its friendliness and sincerity.

Tranquill
Sword: It can fly moderately quickly. No matter how far it travels, it can always find its way back to its master and its nest.
Shield: These bright Pokémon have acute memories. Apparently delivery workers often choose them as their partners.

Unfezant (Male)
Sword: Unfezant are exceptional fliers. The females are known for their stamina, while the males outclass them in terms of speed.
Shield: This Pokémon is intelligent and intensely proud. People will sit up and take notice if you become the Trainer of one.

Unfezant (Female)
Sword: Females of this species are very capable fliers, particularly notable for their stamina. They also take longer to adjust to people.
Shield: This Pokémon is intelligent and intensely proud. People will sit up and take notice if you become the Trainer of one.

Roggenrola
Sword: It’s as hard as steel, but apparently a long soak in water will cause it to soften a bit.
Shield: When it detects a noise, it starts to move. The energy core inside it makes this Pokémon slightly warm to the touch.

Boldore
Sword: If you see its orange crystals start to glow, be wary. It’s about to fire off bursts of energy.
Shield: It relies on sound in order to monitor what’s in its vicinity. When angered, it will attack without ever changing the direction it’s facing.

Gigalith
Sword: This hardy Pokémon can often be found on construction sites and in mines, working alongside people and Copperajah.
Shield: Although its energy blasts can blow away a dump truck, they have a limitation— they can only be fired when the sun is out.

Woobat
Sword: While inside a cave, if you look up and see lots of heart-shaped marks lining the walls, it’s evidence that Woobat live there.
Shield: It emits ultrasonic waves as it flutters about, searching for its prey—bug Pokémon.

Swoobat
Sword: Emitting powerful sound waves tires it out. Afterward, it won’t be able to fly for a little while.
Shield: The auspicious shape of this Pokémon’s nose apparently led some regions to consider Swoobat a symbol of good luck.

Drilbur
Sword: It brings its claws together and whirls around at high speed before rushing toward its prey.
Shield: It’s a digger, using its claws to burrow through the ground. It causes damage to vegetable crops, so many farmers have little love for it.

Excadrill
Sword: It’s not uncommon for tunnels that appear to have formed naturally to actually be a result of Excadrill’s rampant digging.
Shield: Known as the Drill King, this Pokémon can tunnel through the terrain at speeds of over 90 mph.

Audino
Sword: Audino’s sense of hearing is superb. Not even a pebble rolling along over a mile away will escape Audino’s ears.
Shield: This Pokémon has a kind heart. By touching with its feelers, Audino can gauge other creatures’ feelings and physical conditions.

Timburr
Sword: It loves helping out with construction projects. It loves it so much that if rain causes work to halt, it swings its log around and throws a tantrum.
Shield: Timburr that have started carrying logs that are about three times their size are nearly ready to evolve.

Gurdurr
Sword: It shows off its muscles to Machoke and other Gurdurr. If it fails to measure up to the other Pokémon, it lies low for a little while.
Shield: Gurdurr excels at demolition—construction is not its forte. In any case, there’s skill in the way this Pokémon wields its metal beam.

Conkeldurr
Sword: Concrete mixed by Conkeldurr is much more durable than normal concrete, even when the compositions of the two materials are the same.
Shield: When going all out, this Pokémon throws aside its concrete pillars and leaps at opponents to pummel them with its fists.

Tympole
Sword: Graceful ripples running across the water’s surface are a sure sign that Tympole are singing in high-pitched voices below.
Shield: It uses sound waves to communicate with others of its kind. People and other Pokémon species can’t hear its cries of warning.

Palpitoad
Sword: It weakens its prey with sound waves intense enough to cause headaches, then entangles them with its sticky tongue.
Shield: On occasion, their cries are sublimely pleasing to the ear. Palpitoad with larger lumps on their bodies can sing with a wider range of sounds.

Seismitoad
Sword: The vibrating of the bumps all over its body causes earthquake-like tremors. Seismitoad and Croagunk are similar species.
Shield: This Pokémon is popular among the elderly, who say the vibrations of its lumps are great for massages.

Throh
Sword: It performs throwing moves with first-rate skill. Over the course of many battles, Throh’s belt grows darker as it absorbs its wearer’s sweat.
Shield: They train in groups of five. Any member that can’t keep up will discard its belt and leave the group.

Sawk
Sword: If you see a Sawk training in the mountains in its single-minded pursuit of strength, it’s best to quietly pass by.
Shield: The karate chops of a Sawk that’s trained itself to the limit can cleave the ocean itself.

Venipede
Sword: Venipede and Sizzlipede are similar species, but when the two meet, a huge fight ensues.
Shield: Its fangs are highly venomous. If this Pokémon finds prey it thinks it can eat, it leaps for them without any thought of how things might turn out.

Whirlipede
Sword: This Pokémon spins itself rapidly and charges into its opponents. Its top speed is just over 60 mph.
Shield: Whirlipede protects itself with a sturdy shell and poisonous spikes while it stores up the energy it’ll need for evolution.

Scolipede
Sword: Scolipede latches on to its prey with the claws on its neck before slamming them into the ground and jabbing them with its claws’ toxic spikes.
Shield: Scolipede engage in fierce territorial battles with Centiskorch. At the end of one of these battles, the victor makes a meal of the loser.

Cottonee
Sword: It shoots cotton from its body to protect itself. If it gets caught up in hurricane-strength winds, it can get sent to the other side of the Earth.
Shield: Weaving together the cotton of both Cottonee and Eldegoss produces exquisite cloth that’s highly prized by many luxury brands.

Whimsicott
Sword: It scatters cotton all over the place as a prank. If it gets wet, it’ll become too heavy to move and have no choice but to answer for its mischief.
Shield: As long as this Pokémon bathes in sunlight, its cotton keeps growing. If too much cotton fluff builds up, Whimsicott tears it off and scatters it.

Petilil
Sword: Petilil appears around sources of clean water. Boiling leaves from this Pokémon’s head results in a liquid that’s sometimes used as a bug repellent.
Shield: The deeper the color of a Petilil’s leaves, the healthier the Pokémon is. Petilil sometimes makes its home in a well-tended field or flowerbed.

Lilligant
Sword: It’s believed that even first-rate gardeners have a hard time getting the flower on a Lilligant’s head to bloom.
Shield: Essential oils made from Lilligant flowers have a sublime scent, but they’re also staggeringly expensive.

Basculin (Red-Striped Form)
Sword: Anglers love the fight this Pokémon puts up on the hook. And there are always more to catch— many people release them into lakes illicitly.
Shield: In the past, it often appeared on the dinner table. The meat of red-striped Basculin is on the fatty side, and it’s more popular with the youth.

Basculin (Blue-Striped Form)
Sword: Blue-striped Basculin used to be a common food source. They apparently have an inoffensive, light flavor.
Shield: Known for their violence, these Pokémon have the most fights with schools of red-striped Basculin.

Sandile
Sword: The desert gets cold at night, so when the sun sets, this Pokémon burrows deep into the sand and sleeps until sunrise.
Shield: Sandile is small, but its legs and lower body are powerful. Pushing sand aside as it goes, Sandile moves through the desert as if it’s swimming.

Krokorok
Sword: Krokorok has specialized eyes that enable it to see in the dark. This ability lets Krokorok hunt in the dead of night without getting lost.
Shield: Although this Pokémon has specialized eyes that allow it to see in the dark, Krokorok won’t move much at night—the desert gets cold after sunset.

Krookodile
Sword: This Pokémon is known as the Bully of the Sands. Krookodile’s mighty jaws can bite through heavy plates of iron with almost no effort at all.
Shield: While terribly aggressive, Krookodile also has the patience to stay hidden under sand for days, lying in wait for prey.

Darumaka
Sword: It derives its power from fire burning inside its body. If the fire dwindles, this Pokémon will immediately fall asleep.
Shield: This popular symbol of good fortune will never fall over in its sleep, no matter how it’s pushed or pulled.

Galarian Darumaka
Sword: It lived in snowy areas for so long that its fire sac cooled off and atrophied. It now has an organ that generates cold instead.
Shield: The colder they get, the more energetic they are. They freeze their breath to make snowballs, using them as ammo for playful snowball fights.

Darmanitan
Sword: The thick arms of this hot-blooded Pokémon can deliver punches capable of obliterating a dump truck.
Shield: This Pokémon’s power level rises along with the temperature of its fire, which can reach 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit.

Darmanitan (Zen Mode)
Sword: Through meditation, it calms its raging spirit and hones its psychic powers.
Shield: When wounded, it stops moving. It goes as still as stone to meditate, sharpening its mind and spirit.

Galarian Darmanitan
Sword: On days when blizzards blow through, it comes down to where people live. It stashes food in the snowball on its head, taking it home for later.
Shield: Though it has a gentle disposition, it's also very strong. It will quickly freeze the snowball on its head before going for a headbutt.

Darmanitan (Galarian Zen Mode)
Sword: Anger has reignited its atrophied flame sac. This Pokémon spews fire everywhere as it rampages indiscriminately.
Shield: Darmanitan takes this form when enraged. It won't stop spewing flames until its rage has settled, even if its body starts to melt.

Maractus
Sword: With noises that could be mistaken for the rattles of maracas, it creates an upbeat rhythm, startling bird Pokémon and making them fly off in a hurry.
Shield: Once each year, this Pokémon scatters its seeds. They’re jam-packed with nutrients, making them a precious food source out in the desert.

Dwebble
Sword: When it finds a stone appealing, it creates a hole inside it and uses it as its home. This Pokémon is the natural enemy of Roggenrola and Rolycoly.
Shield: It first tries to find a rock to live in, but if there are no suitable rocks to be found, Dwebble may move in to the ports of a Hippowdon.

Crustle
Sword: This highly territorial Pokémon prefers dry climates. It won’t come out of its boulder on rainy days.
Shield: Its thick claws are its greatest weapons. They’re mighty enough to crack Rhyperior’s carapace.

Scraggy
Sword: If it locks eyes with you, watch out! Nothing and no one is safe from the reckless headbutts of this troublesome Pokémon.
Shield: It protects itself with its durable skin. It’s thought that this Pokémon will evolve once its skin has completely stretched out.

Scrafty
Sword: As halfhearted as this Pokémon’s kicks may seem, they pack enough power to shatter Conkeldurr’s concrete pillars.
Shield: While mostly known for having the temperament of an aggressive ruffian, this Pokémon takes very good care of its family, friends, and territory.

Sigilyph
Sword: Psychic power allows these Pokémon to fly. Some say they were the guardians of an ancient city. Others say they were the guardians’ emissaries.
Shield: A discovery was made in the desert where Sigilyph fly. The ruins of what may have been an ancient city were found beneath the sands.

Yamask
Sword: It wanders through ruins by night, carrying a mask that’s said to have been the face it had when it was still human.
Shield: The spirit of a person from a bygone age became this Pokémon. It rambles through ruins, searching for someone who knows its face.

Galarian Yamask
Sword: A clay slab with cursed engravings took possession of a Yamask. The slab is said to be absorbing the Yamask's dark power.
Shield: It's said that this Pokémon was formed when an ancient clay tablet was drawn to a vengeful spirit.

Cofagrigus
Sword: This Pokémon has a body of sparkling gold. People say it no longer remembers that it was once human.
Shield: There are many depictions of Cofagrigus decorating ancient tombs. They’re symbols of the wealth that kings of bygone eras had.

Tirtouga
Sword: This Pokémon inhabited ancient seas. Although it can only crawl, it still comes up onto land in search of prey.
Shield: Tirtouga is considered to be the ancestor of many turtle Pokémon. It was restored to life from a fossil.

Carracosta
Sword: Carracosta completely devours its prey—bones, shells, and all. Because of this, Carracosta’s own shell grows thick and sturdy.
Shield: This Pokémon emerges from the water in search of prey despite the fact that it moves more slowly on land.

Archen
Sword: This Pokémon was successfully restored from a fossil. As research suggested, Archen is unable to fly. But it’s very good at jumping.
Shield: Archen is said to be the ancestor of bird Pokémon. It lived in treetops, eating berries and bug Pokémon.

Archeops
Sword: It needs a running start to take off. If Archeops wants to fly, it first needs to run nearly 25 mph, building speed over a course of about 2.5 miles.
Shield: Though capable of flight, Archeops was apparently better at hunting on the ground.

Trubbish
Sword: Its favorite places are unsanitary ones. If you leave trash lying around, you could even find one of these Pokémon living in your room.
Shield: This Pokémon was born from a bag stuffed with trash. Galarian Weezing relish the fumes belched by Trubbish.

Garbodor
Sword: This Pokémon eats trash, which turns into poison inside its body. The main component of the poison depends on what sort of trash was eaten.
Shield: The toxic liquid it launches from its right arm is so virulent that it can kill a weakened creature instantly.

Gigantamax Garbodor
Sword: Due to Gigantamax energy, this Pokémon's toxic gas has become much thicker, congealing into masses shaped like discarded toys.
Shield: It sprays toxic gas from its mouth and fingers. If the gas engulfs you, the toxins will seep in all the way down to your bones.

Zorua
Sword: Zorua is a timid Pokémon. This disposition seems to be what led to the development of Zorua’s ability to take on the forms of other creatures.
Shield: Zorua sometimes transforms into a person and goes into cities to search for food. When Zorua does this, it usually takes on the form of a child.

Zoroark
Sword: This Pokémon cares deeply about others of its kind, and it will conjure terrifying illusions to keep its den and pack safe.
Shield: Seeking to ease the burden of their solitude, lonely Trainers tell Zoroark to show illusions to them.

Minccino
Sword: The way it brushes away grime with its tail can be helpful when cleaning. But its focus on spotlessness can make cleaning more of a hassle.
Shield: They pet each other with their tails as a form of greeting. Of the two, the one whose tail is fluffier is a bit more boastful.

Cinccino
Sword: Its body secretes oil that this Pokémon spreads over its nest as a coating to protect it from dust. Cinccino won’t tolerate even a speck of the stuff.
Shield: A special oil that seeps through their fur helps them avoid attacks. The oil fetches a high price at market.

Gothita
Sword: Though they’re still only babies, there’s psychic power stored in their ribbonlike feelers, and sometimes they use that power to fight.
Shield: Even when nobody seems to be around, Gothita can still be heard making a muted cry. Many believe it’s speaking to something only it can see.

Gothorita
Sword: It’s said that when stars shine in the night sky, this Pokémon will spirit away sleeping children. Some call it the Witch of Punishment.
Shield: On nights when the stars shine, this Pokémon’s psychic power is at its strongest. It’s unknown just what link Gothorita has to the greater universe.

Gothitelle
Sword: It has tremendous psychic power, but it dislikes conflict. It’s also able to predict the future based on the movement of the stars.
Shield: A criminal who was shown his fate by a Gothitelle went missing that same day and was never seen again.

Solosis
Sword: It communicates with others telepathically. Its body is encapsulated in liquid, but if it takes a heavy blow, the liquid will leak out.
Shield: Many say that the special liquid covering this Pokémon’s body would allow it to survive in the vacuum of space.

Duosion
Sword: Its psychic power can supposedly cover a range of more than half a mile—but only if its two brains can agree with each other.
Shield: Its brain has split into two, and the two halves rarely think alike. Its actions are utterly unpredictable.

Reuniclus
Sword: While it could use its psychic abilities in battle, this Pokémon prefers to swing its powerful arms around to beat opponents into submission.
Shield: It’s said that drinking the liquid surrounding Reuniclus grants wisdom. Problem is, the liquid is highly toxic to anything besides Reuniclus itself.

Vanillite
Sword: Unable to survive in hot areas, it makes itself comfortable by breathing out air cold enough to cause snow. It burrows into the snow to sleep.
Shield: Supposedly, this Pokémon was born from an icicle. It spews out freezing air at −58 degrees Fahrenheit to make itself more comfortable.

Vanillish
Sword: By drinking pure water, it grows its icy body. This Pokémon can be hard to find on days with warm, sunny weather.
Shield: It blasts enemies with cold air reaching −148 degrees Fahrenheit, freezing them solid. But it spares their lives afterward—it’s a kind Pokémon.

Vanilluxe
Sword: When its anger reaches a breaking point, this Pokémon unleashes a fierce blizzard that freezes every creature around it, be they friend or foe.
Shield: People believe this Pokémon formed when two Vanillish stuck together. Its body temperature is roughly 21 degrees Fahrenheit.

Emolga
Sword: As Emolga flutters through the air, it crackles with electricity. This Pokémon is cute, but it can cause a lot of trouble.
Shield: This Pokémon absolutely loves sweet berries. Sometimes it stuffs its cheeks full of so much food that it can’t fly properly.

Karrablast
Sword: Its strange physiology reacts to electrical energy in interesting ways. The presence of a Shelmet will cause this Pokémon to evolve.
Shield: It spits a liquid from its mouth to melt through Shelmet’s shell. Karrablast doesn’t eat the shell— it eats only the contents.

Escavalier
Sword: They use shells they’ve stolen from Shelmet to arm and protect themselves. They’re very popular Pokémon in the Galar region.
Shield: It charges its enemies, lances at the ready. An image of one of its duels is captured in a famous painting of Escavalier clashing with Sirfetch’d.

Foongus
Sword: No one knows what the Poké Ball–like pattern on Foongus means or why Foongus has it.
Shield: The spores released from this Pokémon’s hands are highly poisonous, but when thoroughly dried, the spores can be used as stomach medicine.

Amoonguss
Sword: This Pokémon puffs poisonous spores at its foes. If the spores aren’t washed off quickly, they’ll grow into mushrooms wherever they land.
Shield: Amoonguss generally doesn’t move much. It tends to stand still near Poké Balls that have been dropped on the ground.

Frillish (Male)
Sword: It envelops its prey in its veillike arms and draws it down to the deeps, five miles below the ocean’s surface.
Shield: Legend has it that the residents of a sunken ancient city changed into these Pokémon.

Frillish (Female)
Shield: Its thin, veillike arms have tens of thousands of poisonous stingers. Females have slightly longer stingers.

Jellicent (Male)
Sword: Most of this Pokémon’s body composition is identical to sea water. It makes sunken ships its lair.
Shield: Whenever a full moon hangs in the night sky, schools of Jellicent gather near the surface of the sea, waiting for their prey to appear.

Jellicent (Female)
Sword: These Pokémon have body compositions that are mostly identical to seawater. They make their lairs from sunken ships.
Shield: The crown on its head gets bigger and bigger as it absorbs more and more of the life-force of other creatures.

Joltik
Sword: Joltik can be found clinging to other Pokémon. It’s soaking up static electricity because it can’t produce a charge on its own.
Shield: Joltik latch on to other Pokémon and suck out static electricity. They’re often found sticking to Yamper’s hindquarters.

Galvantula
Sword: It launches electrified fur from its abdomen as its means of attack. Opponents hit by the fur could be in for three full days and nights of paralysis.
Shield: It lays traps of electrified threads near the nests of bird Pokémon, aiming to snare chicks that are not yet good at flying.

Ferroseed
Sword: It defends itself by launching spikes, but its aim isn’t very good at first. Only after a lot of practice will it improve.
Shield: Mossy caves are their preferred dwellings. Enzymes contained in mosses help Ferroseed’s spikes grow big and strong.

Ferrothorn
Sword: This Pokémon scrapes its spikes across rocks, and then uses the tips of its feelers to absorb the nutrients it finds within the stone.
Shield: Its spikes are harder than steel. This Pokémon crawls across rock walls by stabbing the spikes on its feelers into the stone.

Klink
Sword: The two minigears that compose this Pokémon are closer than twins. They mesh well only with each other.
Shield: It’s suspected that Klink were the inspiration behind ancient people’s invention of the first gears.

Klang
Sword: When Klang goes all out, the minigear links up perfectly with the outer part of the big gear, and this Pokémon’s rotation speed increases sharply.
Shield: Many companies in the Galar region choose Klang as their logo. This Pokémon is considered the symbol of industrial technology.

Klinklang
Sword: From its spikes, it launches powerful blasts of electricity. Its red core contains an enormous amount of energy.
Shield: The three gears that compose this Pokémon spin at high speed. Its new spiked gear isn’t a living creature.

Elgyem
Sword: If this Pokémon stands near a TV, strange scenery will appear on the screen. That scenery is said to be from its home.
Shield: This Pokémon was discovered about 50 years ago. Its highly developed brain enables it to exert its psychic powers.

Beheeyem
Sword: Whenever a Beheeyem visits a farm, a Dubwool mysteriously disappears.
Shield: Sometimes found drifting above wheat fields, this Pokémon can control the memories of its opponents.

Litwick
Sword: The flame on its head keeps its body slightly warm. This Pokémon takes lost children by the hand to guide them to the spirit world.
Shield: The younger the life this Pokémon absorbs, the brighter and eerier the flame on its head burns.

Lampent
Sword: This Pokémon appears just before someone passes away, so it’s feared as an emissary of death.
Shield: It lurks in cities, pretending to be a lamp. Once it finds someone whose death is near, it will trail quietly after them.

Chandelure
Sword: This Pokémon haunts dilapidated mansions. It sways its arms to hypnotize opponents with the ominous dancing of its flames.
Shield: In homes illuminated by Chandelure instead of lights, funerals were a constant occurrence— or so it’s said.

Axew
Sword: These Pokémon nest in the ground and use their tusks to crush hard berries. Crushing berries is also how they test each other’s strength.
Shield: They play with each other by knocking their large tusks together. Their tusks break sometimes, but they grow back so quickly that it isn’t a concern.

Fraxure
Sword: After battle, this Pokémon carefully sharpens its tusks on river rocks. It needs to take care of its tusks—if one breaks, it will never grow back.
Shield: Its skin is as hard as a suit of armor. Fraxure’s favorite strategy is to tackle its opponents, stabbing them with its tusks at the same time.

Haxorus
Sword: Its resilient tusks are its pride and joy. It licks up dirt to take in the minerals it needs to keep its tusks in top condition.
Shield: While usually kindhearted, it can be terrifying if angered. Tusks that can slice through steel beams are how Haxorus deals with its adversaries.

Cubchoo
Sword: When this Pokémon is in good health, its snot becomes thicker and stickier. It will smear its snot on anyone it doesn’t like.
Shield: It sniffles before performing a move, using its frosty snot to provide an icy element to any move that needs it.

Beartic
Sword: It swims through frigid seas, searching for prey. From its frozen breath, it forms icy fangs that are harder than steel.
Shield: It swims energetically through frigid seas. When it gets tired, it freezes the seawater with its breath so it can rest on the ice.

Cryogonal
Sword: With its icy chains, Cryogonal freezes those it encounters. It then takes its victims away to somewhere unknown.
Shield: When the weather gets hot, these Pokémon turn into water vapor. Cryogonal are almost never seen during summer.

Shelmet
Sword: When attacked, it tightly shuts the lid of its shell. This reaction fails to protect it from Karrablast, however, because they can still get into the shell.
Shield: It has a strange physiology that responds to electricity. When together with Karrablast, Shelmet evolves for some reason.

Accelgor
Sword: It moves with blinding speed and lobs poison at foes. Featuring Accelgor as a main character is a surefire way to make a movie or comic popular.
Shield: Discarding its shell made it nimble. To keep itself from dehydrating, it wraps its body in bands of membrane.

Stunfisk
Sword: Thanks to bacteria that lived in the mud flats with it, this Pokémon developed the organs it uses to generate electricity.
Shield: For some reason, this Pokémon smiles slightly when it emits a strong electric current from the yellow markings on its body.

Galarian Stunfisk
Sword: Living in mud with a high iron content has given it a strong steel body.
Shield: Its conspicuous lips lure prey in as it lies in wait in the mud. When prey gets close, Stunfisk clamps its jagged steel fins down on them.

Mienfoo
Sword: In one minute, a well-trained Mienfoo can chop with its arms more than 100 times.
Shield: Though small, Mienfoo’s temperament is fierce. Any creature that approaches Mienfoo carelessly will be greeted with a flurry of graceful attacks.

Mienshao
Sword: When Mienshao comes across a truly challenging opponent, it will lighten itself by biting off the fur on its arms.
Shield: Delivered at blinding speeds, kicks from this Pokémon can shatter massive boulders into tiny pieces.

Druddigon
Sword: Druddigon lives in caves, but it never skips sunbathing—it won’t be able to move if its body gets too cold.
Shield: Druddigon are vicious and cunning. They take up residence in nests dug out by other Pokémon, treating the stolen nests as their own lairs.

Golett
Sword: They were sculpted from clay in ancient times. No one knows why, but some of them are driven to continually line up boulders.
Shield: This Pokémon was created from clay. It received orders from its master many thousands of years ago, and it still follows those orders to this day.

Golurk
Sword: Artillery platforms built into the walls of ancient castles served as perches from which Golurk could fire energy beams.
Shield: There’s a theory that inside Golurk is a perpetual motion machine that produces limitless energy, but this belief hasn’t been proven.

Pawniard
Sword: It uses river stones to maintain the cutting edges of the blades covering its body. These sharpened blades allow it to bring down opponents.
Shield: A pack of these Pokémon forms to serve a Bisharp boss. Each Pawniard trains diligently, dreaming of one day taking the lead.

Bisharp
Sword: It’s accompanied by a large retinue of Pawniard. Bisharp keeps a keen eye on its minions, ensuring none of them even think of double-crossing it.
Shield: Violent conflicts erupt between Bisharp and Fraxure over places where sharpening stones can be found.

Bouffalant
Sword: These Pokémon can crush a car with no more than a headbutt. Bouffalant with more hair on their heads hold higher positions within the herd.
Shield: These Pokémon live in herds of about 20 individuals. Bouffalant that betray the herd will lose the hair on their heads for some reason.

Rufflet
Sword: If it spies a strong Pokémon, Rufflet can’t resist challenging it to a battle. But if Rufflet loses, it starts bawling.
Shield: A combative Pokémon, it’s ready to pick a fight with anyone. It has talons that can crush hard berries.

Braviary
Sword: Known for its bravery and pride, this majestic Pokémon is often seen as a motif for various kinds of emblems.
Shield: Because this Pokémon is hotheaded and belligerent, it’s Corviknight that’s taken the role of transportation in Galar.

Vullaby
Sword: It wears a bone to protect its rear. It often squabbles with others of its kind over particularly comfy bones.
Shield: Vullaby grow quickly. Bones that have gotten too small for older Vullaby to wear often get passed down to younger ones in the nest.

Mandibuzz
Sword: Although it’s a bit of a ruffian, this Pokémon will take lost Vullaby under its wing and care for them till they’re ready to leave the nest.
Shield: They adorn themselves with bones. There seem to be fashion trends among them, as different bones come into and fall out of popularity.

Heatmor
Sword: There’s a hole in its tail that allows it to draw in the air it needs to keep its fire burning. If the hole gets blocked, this Pokémon will fall ill.
Shield: A flame serves as its tongue, melting through the hard shell of Durant so that Heatmor can devour their insides.

Durant
Sword: They lay their eggs deep inside their nests. When attacked by Heatmor, they retaliate using their massive mandibles.
Shield: With their large mandibles, these Pokémon can crunch their way through rock. They work together to protect their eggs from Sandaconda.

Deino
Sword: When it encounters something, its first urge is usually to bite it. If it likes what it tastes, it will commit the associated scent to memory.
Shield: Because it can’t see, this Pokémon is constantly biting at everything it touches, trying to keep track of its surroundings.

Zweilous
Sword: While hunting for prey, Zweilous wanders its territory, its two heads often bickering over which way to go.
Shield: Their two heads will fight each other over a single piece of food. Zweilous are covered in scars even without battling others.

Hydreigon
Sword: There are a slew of stories about villages that were destroyed by Hydreigon. It bites anything that moves.
Shield: The three heads take turns sinking their teeth into the opponent. Their attacks won’t slow until their target goes down.

Larvesta
Sword: The people of ancient times believed that Larvesta fell from the sun.
Shield: Larvesta’s body is warm all over. It spouts fire from the tips of its horns to intimidate predators and scare prey.

Volcarona
Sword: Volcarona scatters burning scales. Some say it does this to start fires. Others say it’s trying to rescue those that suffer in the cold.
Shield: This Pokémon emerges from a cocoon formed of raging flames. Ancient murals depict Volcarona as a deity of fire.

Cobalion
Sword: This Pokémon appears in a legend alongside Terrakion and Virizion, fighting against humans in defense of the Unova region’s Pokémon.
Shield: From the moment it’s born, this Pokémon radiates the air of a leader. Its presence will calm even vicious foes.

Terrakion
Sword: It has phenomenal power. It will mercilessly crush anyone or anything that bullies small Pokémon.
Shield: In Unovan legend, Terrakion battled against humans in an effort to protect other Pokémon.

Virizion
Sword: A legend tells of this Pokémon working together with Cobalion and Terrakion to protect the Pokémon of the Unova region.
Shield: It darts around opponents with a flurry of quick movements, slicing them up with its horns.

Reshiram
Sword: Flames spew from its tail as it flies through the sky like a jet airplane. It’s said that this Pokémon will scorch the world.
Shield: According to myth, if people ignore truth and let themselves become consumed by greed, Reshiram will arrive to burn their kingdoms down.

Zekrom
Sword: When the interior part of its tail spins like a motor, Zekrom can generate many bolts of lightning to blast its surroundings.
Shield: Mythology tells us that if people lose the righteousness in their hearts, their kingdoms will be razed by Zekrom’s lightning.

Kyurem
Sword: Dwelling within it is a power even greater than that of Reshiram or Zekrom, but the extreme cold keeps that power bound.
Shield: It appears that this Pokémon uses its powers over ice to freeze its own body in order to stabilize its cellular structure.

White Kyurem
Sword: The sameness of Reshiram's and Kyurem's genes allowed Kyurem to absorb Reshiram. Kyurem can now use the power of both fire and ice.
Shield: It has foreseen that a world of truth will arrive for people and Pokémon. It strives to protect that future.

Black Kyurem
Sword: It's said that this Pokémon battles in order to protect the ideal world that will exist in the future for people and Pokémon.
Shield: The sameness of Zekrom's and Kyurem's genes allowed Kyurem to absorb Zekrom. Kyurem can now use the power of both electricity and ice.

Keldeo
Sword: Cobalion, Terrakion, and Virizion taught this Pokémon how to fight. It dashes across the world, seeking more opportunities to further its training.
Shield: They say that Keldeo must survive harsh battles and fully develop the horn on its forehead before this Pokémon’s true power will awaken.

Keldeo (Resolute Form)
Sword: Keldeo has strengthened its resolve for battle, filling its body with power and changing its form.
Shield: The power that lay hidden in its body now covers its horn, turning it into a sword that can slice through anything.

Bunnelby
Sword: It excels at digging holes. Using its ears, it can dig a nest 33 feet deep in one night.
Shield: It’s very sensitive to danger. The sound of Corviknight’s flapping will have Bunnelby digging a hole to hide underground in moments.

Diggersby
Sword: With power equal to an excavator, it can dig through dense bedrock. It’s a huge help during tunnel construction.
Shield: The fur on its belly retains heat exceptionally well. People used to make heavy winter clothing from fur shed by this Pokémon.

Fletchling
Sword: Its melodious cries are actually warnings. Fletchling will mercilessly peck at anything that enters its territory.
Shield: When this Pokémon gets excited, its body temperature increases sharply. If you touch a Fletchling with bare hands, you might get burned.

Fletchinder
Sword: Fletchinder launches embers into the den of its prey. When the prey comes leaping out, Fletchinder’s sharp talons finish it off.
Shield: Fletchinder are exceedingly territorial and aggressive. These Pokémon fight among themselves over feeding grounds.

Talonflame
Sword: Talonflame mainly preys upon other bird Pokémon. To intimidate opponents, it sends embers spewing from gaps between its feathers.
Shield: Talonflame dives toward prey at speeds of up to 310 mph and assaults them with powerful kicks, giving the prey no chance to escape.

Pancham
Sword: It chooses a Pangoro as its master and then imitates its master’s actions. This is how it learns to battle and hunt for prey.
Shield: Wanting to make sure it’s taken seriously, Pancham’s always giving others a glare. But if it’s not focusing, it ends up smiling.

Pangoro
Sword: This Pokémon is quick to anger, and it has no problem using its prodigious strength to get its way. It lives for duels against Obstagoon.
Shield: Using its leaf, Pangoro can predict the moves of its opponents. It strikes with punches that can turn a dump truck into scrap with just one hit.

Espurr
Sword: Though Espurr’s expression never changes, behind that blank stare is an intense struggle to contain its devastating psychic power.
Shield: There’s enough psychic power in Espurr to send a wrestler flying, but because this power can’t be controlled, Espurr finds it troublesome.

Meowstic (Male)
Sword: Revealing the eyelike patterns on the insides of its ears will unleash its psychic powers. It normally keeps the patterns hidden, however.
Shield: The defensive instinct of the males is strong. It’s when they’re protecting themselves or their partners that they unleash their full power.

Meowstic (Female)
Sword: Females are a bit more selfish and aggressive than males. If they don't get what they want, they will torment you with their psychic abilities.
Shield: If it doesn't hold back when it unleashes its psychic power, it can tear apart a tanker. Its unfriendliness is part of its charm.

Honedge
Sword: Honedge’s soul once belonged to a person who was killed a long time ago by the sword that makes up Honedge’s body.
Shield: The blue eye on the sword’s handguard is the true body of Honedge. With its old cloth, it drains people’s lives away.

Doublade
Sword: Honedge evolves into twins. The two blades rub together to emit a metallic sound that unnerves opponents.
Shield: The two swords employ a strategy of rapidly alternating between offense and defense to bring down their prey.

Aegislash (Shield Forme)
Sword: In this defensive stance, Aegislash uses its steel body and a force field of spectral power to reduce the damage of any attack.
Shield: Its potent spectral powers allow it to manipulate others. It once used its powers to force people and Pokémon to build a kingdom to its liking.

Aegislash (Blade Forme)
Sword: This stance is dedicated to offense. It can cleave any opponent with the strength and weight of its steel blade.
Shield: Once upon a time, a king with an Aegislash reigned over the land. His Pokémon eventually drained him of life, and his kingdom fell with him.

Spritzee
Sword: A scent pouch within this Pokémon’s body allows it to create various scents. A change in its diet will alter the fragrance it produces.
Shield: The scent its body gives off enraptures those who smell it. Noble ladies had no shortage of love for Spritzee.

Aromatisse
Sword: The scent that constantly emits from its fur is so powerful that this Pokémon’s companions will eventually lose their sense of smell.
Shield: The scents Aromatisse can produce range from sweet smells that bolster allies to foul smells that sap an opponent’s will to fight.

Swirlix
Sword: It eats its own weight in sugar every day. If it doesn’t get enough sugar, it becomes incredibly grumpy.
Shield: The sweet smell of cotton candy perfumes Swirlix’s fluffy fur. This Pokémon spits out sticky string to tangle up its enemies.

Slurpuff
Sword: By taking in a person’s scent, it can sniff out their mental and physical condition. It’s hoped that this skill will have many medical applications.
Shield: Slurpuff’s fur contains a lot of air, making it soft to the touch and lighter than it looks.

Inkay
Sword: It spins while making its luminescent spots flash. These spots allow it to communicate with others by using different patterns of light.
Shield: By exposing foes to the blinking of its luminescent spots, Inkay demoralizes them, and then it seizes the chance to flee.

Malamar
Sword: Gazing at its luminescent spots will quickly induce a hypnotic state, putting the observer under Malamar’s control.
Shield: It’s said that Malamar’s hypnotic powers played a role in certain history-changing events.

Binacle
Sword: After two Binacle find a suitably sized rock, they adhere themselves to it and live together. They cooperate to gather food during high tide.
Shield: If the two don’t work well together, both their offense and defense fall apart. Without good teamwork, they won’t survive.

Barbaracle
Sword: Seven Binacle come together to form one Barbaracle. The Binacle that serves as the head gives orders to those serving as the limbs.
Shield: Having an eye on each palm allows it to keep watch in all directions. In a pinch, its limbs start to act on their own to ensure the enemy’s defeat.

Skrelp
Sword: It drifts in the ocean, blending in with floating seaweed. When other Pokémon come to feast on the seaweed, Skrelp feasts on them instead.
Shield: Skrelp looks like a piece of rotten seaweed, so it can blend in with seaweed drifting on the ocean and avoid being detected by enemies.

Dragalge
Sword: Dragalge uses a poisonous liquid capable of corroding metal to send tankers that enter its territory to the bottom of the sea.
Shield: Dragalge generates dragon energy by sticking the plume on its head out above the ocean’s surface and bathing it in sunlight.

Clauncher
Sword: Clauncher’s claws can fall off during battle, but they’ll regenerate. The meat inside the claws is popular as a delicacy in Galar.
Shield: By detonating gas that accumulates in its right claw, this Pokémon launches water like a bullet. This is how Clauncher defeats its enemies.

Clawitzer
Sword: After using the feelers on its oversized claw to detect the location of prey, Clawitzer launches a cannonball of water at its target.
Shield: Clawitzer’s right arm is a cannon that launches projectiles made of seawater. Shots from a Clawitzer’s cannon arm can sink a tanker.

Helioptile
Sword: When spread, the frills on its head act like solar panels, generating the power behind this Pokémon’s electric moves.
Shield: The sun powers this Pokémon’s electricity generation. Interruption of that process stresses Helioptile to the point of weakness.

Heliolisk
Sword: A now-vanished desert culture treasured these Pokémon. Appropriately, when Heliolisk came to the Galar region, treasure came with them.
Shield: One Heliolisk basking in the sun with its frill outspread is all it would take to produce enough electricity to power a city.

Tyrunt
Sword: This is an ancient Pokémon, revived in modern times. It has a violent disposition, and it’ll tear apart anything it gets between its hefty jaws.
Shield: This Pokémon is selfish and likes to be pampered. It can also inflict grievous wounds on its Trainer just by playing around.

Tyrantrum
Sword: This Pokémon is from about 100,000,000 years ago. It has the presence of a king, vicious but magnificent.
Shield: A single bite of Tyrantrum’s massive jaws will demolish a car. This Pokémon was the king of the ancient world.

Amaura
Sword: This Pokémon was successfully restored from a fossil. In the past, it lived with others of its kind in cold lands where there were fewer predators.
Shield: Amaura is an ancient Pokémon that has gone extinct. Specimens of this species can sometimes be found frozen in ice.

Aurorus
Sword: Aurorus was restored from a fossil. It’s said that when this Pokémon howls, auroras appear in the night sky.
Shield: When gripped by rage, Aurorus will emanate freezing air, covering everything around it in ice.

Sylveon
Sword: By releasing enmity-erasing waves from its ribbonlike feelers, Sylveon stops any conflict.
Shield: There’s a Galarian fairy tale that describes a beautiful Sylveon vanquishing a dreadful dragon Pokémon.

Hawlucha
Sword: It drives its opponents to exhaustion with its agile maneuvers, then ends the fight with a flashy finishing move.
Shield: It always strikes a pose before going for its finishing move. Sometimes opponents take advantage of that time to counterattack.

Dedenne
Sword: A Dedenne’s whiskers pick up electrical waves other Dedenne send out. These Pokémon share locations of food or electricity with one another.
Shield: Since Dedenne can’t generate much electricity on its own, it steals electricity from outlets or other electric Pokémon.

Carbink
Sword: When beset by attackers, Carbink wipes them all out by firing high-energy beams from the gems embedded in its body.
Shield: It’s said that somewhere in the world, there’s a mineral vein housing a large pack of slumbering Carbink. It’s also said that this pack has a queen.

Goomy
Sword: Because most of its body is water, it will dry up if the weather becomes too arid. It’s considered the weakest dragon Pokémon.
Shield: Their horns are powerful sensors. As soon as Goomy pick up any sign of enemies, they go into hiding. This is how they’ve survived.

Sliggoo
Sword: Although this Pokémon isn’t very strong, its body is coated in a caustic slime that can melt through anything, so predators steer clear of it.
Shield: The lump on its back contains its tiny brain. It thinks only of food and escaping its enemies.

Goodra
Sword: Sometimes it misunderstands instructions and appears dazed or bewildered. Many Trainers don’t mind, finding this behavior to be adorable.
Shield: Its form of offense is forcefully stretching out its horns. The strikes land 100 times harder than any blow from a heavyweight boxer.

Klefki
Sword: This Pokémon is constantly collecting keys. Entrust a Klefki with important keys, and the Pokémon will protect them no matter what.
Shield: Klefki sucks in metal ions with the horn topping its head. It seems this Pokémon loves keys so much that its head needed to look like one, too.

Phantump
Sword: After a lost child perished in the forest, their spirit possessed a tree stump, causing the spirit’s rebirth as this Pokémon.
Shield: With a voice like a human child’s, it cries out to lure adults deep into the forest, getting them lost among the trees.

Trevenant
Sword: People fear it due to a belief that it devours any who try to cut down trees in its forest, but to the Pokémon it shares its woods with, it’s kind.
Shield: Small roots that extend from the tips of this Pokémon’s feet can tie into the trees of the forest and give Trevenant control over them.

Pumpkaboo (Small Size)
Sword: When taking spirits to the afterlife, small Pumpkaboo prefer the spirits of children to those of adults.
Shield: Small Pumpkaboo are said to be the product of areas where few lost souls lingered.

Pumpkaboo (Average Size)
Sword: Spirits that wander this world are placed into Pumpkaboo’s body. They’re then moved on to the afterlife.
Shield: The light that streams out from the holes in the pumpkin can hypnotize and control the people and Pokémon that see it.

Pumpkaboo (Large Size)
Sword: When taking spirits to the afterlife, large Pumpkaboo prefer the spirits of adults to those of children.
Shield: Large Pumpkaboo are said to be the product of areas where many lost souls lingered.

Pumpkaboo (Super Size)
Sword: Supersized Pumpkaboo are very partial to the spirits of people who were of similarly superior proportions.
Shield: Massive Pumpkaboo are said to be the product of areas where a great number of lost souls lingered.

Gourgeist (Small Size)
Sword: Small Gourgeist pretend to be children to fool adults. Anyone who falls for the act gets carried away to the hereafter.
Shield: A small-sized Pumpkaboo evolves into a small-sized Gourgeist. Its bodily proportions also get passed on to its descendants.

Gourgeist (Average Size)
Sword: Eerie cries emanate from its body in the dead of night. The sounds are said to be the wails of spirits who are suffering in the afterlife.
Shield: In the darkness of a new-moon night, Gourgeist will come knocking. Whoever answers the door will be swept off to the afterlife.

Gourgeist (Large Size)
Sword: Large Gourgeist put on the guise of adults, taking the hands of children to lead them to the afterlife.
Shield: A large-sized Pumpkaboo evolves into a large-sized Gourgeist. Its bodily proportions also get passed on to its descendants.

Gourgeist (Super Size)
Sword: Supersized Gourgeist aren't picky. They will forcefully drag anyone off to the afterlife.
Shield: A supersized Pumpkaboo evolves into a supersized Gourgeist. Its bodily proportions also get passed on to its descendants.

Bergmite
Sword: They chill the air around them to −150 degrees Fahrenheit, freezing the water in the air into ice that they use as armor.
Shield: This Pokémon lives in areas of frigid cold. It secures itself to the back of an Avalugg by freezing its feet in place.

Avalugg
Sword: At high latitudes, this Pokémon can be found with clusters of Bergmite on its back as it swims among the icebergs.
Shield: As Avalugg moves about during the day, the cracks in its body deepen. The Pokémon’s body returns to a pristine state overnight.

Noibat
Sword: After nightfall, they emerge from the caves they nest in during the day. Using their ultrasonic waves, they go on the hunt for ripened fruit.
Shield: No wavelength of sound is beyond Noibat’s ability to produce. The ultrasonic waves it generates can overcome much larger Pokémon.

Noivern
Sword: Aggressive and cruel, this Pokémon will ruthlessly torment enemies that are helpless in the dark.
Shield: Flying through the darkness, it weakens enemies with ultrasonic waves that could crush stone. Its fangs finish the fight.

Rowlet
Sword: At a distance, it launches its sharp feathers while flying about. If the enemy gets too close, Rowlet switches tactics and delivers vicious kicks.
Shield: During the day, it builds up energy via photosynthesis. At night, it flies silently through the sky, on the prowl for prey.

Dartrix
Sword: It throws one knifelike feather after another at its enemies, and each one precisely strikes a weak point. These feathers are known as blade quills.
Shield: It never slacks when it comes to the task of cleaning its feathers. Thorough preening keeps it looking spiffy and its blade quills nice and sharp.

Decidueye
Sword: As if wielding a bow, it launches the arrow quills hidden among the feathers of its wings. Decidueye’s shots never miss.
Shield: In a tenth of a second, it can nock and fire an arrow quill, piercing an opponent’s weak point before they notice what’s happening.

Litten
Sword: It spends even the smallest amount of downtime grooming its fur with its tongue. Loose fur gathers in its stomach and serves as fuel for fiery moves.
Shield: Trying to pet Litten before it trusts you will result in a nasty scratch from its sharp claws. Be careful.

Torracat
Sword: In the midst of battle, the fire pouch on Torracat’s neck rings like a bell and produces stronger flames than usual.
Shield: When facing a powerful enemy, Torracat’s fighting spirit gets pumped up, and its fire bell blazes hotter.

Incineroar
Sword: It excels at violent, no-holds-barred battles. The temperature of the flames that issue from its navel exceeds 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shield: Incineroar’s rough and aggressive behavior is its most notable trait, but the way it helps out small Pokémon shows that it has a kind side as well.

Popplio
Sword: It creates special bouncy balloons to send at its opponents. When the balloons pop, the sheer force of their bursting is what deals damage.
Shield: If Popplio want to create big, powerful balloons, they must be persistent. It takes daily practice for these Pokémon to develop their skills.

Brionne
Sword: As if dancing, it artfully dodges the attacks of its enemies. All the while, it’s busy forming a bunch of balloons to overwhelm its foes.
Shield: On nights when the sea is calm, Brionne dance with one another to the singing of the Primarina that’s leading them.

Primarina
Sword: With its mouth, it makes sonic waves that sound like beautiful singing. It uses the sonic waves to control its water balloons.
Shield: For Primarina, every battle’s a stage. Its singing and the dancing of its balloons will mesmerize the audience.

Grubbin
Sword: Its natural enemies, like Rookidee, may flee rather than risk getting caught in its large mandibles that can snap thick tree branches.
Shield: It uses its big jaws to dig nests into the forest floor, and it loves to feed on sweet tree sap.

Charjabug
Sword: While its durable shell protects it from attacks, Charjabug strikes at enemies with jolts of electricity discharged from the tips of its jaws.
Shield: Its digestive processes convert the leaves it eats into electricity. An electric sac in its belly stores the electricity for later use.

Vikavolt
Sword: It builds up electricity in its abdomen, focuses it through its jaws, and then fires the electricity off in concentrated beams.
Shield: If it carries a Charjabug to use as a spare battery, a flying Vikavolt can rapidly fire high-powered beams of electricity.

Cutiefly
Sword: Nectar and pollen are its favorite fare. You can find Cutiefly hovering around Gossifleur, trying to get some of Gossifleur’s pollen.
Shield: An opponent’s aura can tell Cutiefly what that opponent’s next move will be. Then Cutiefly can glide around the attack and strike back.

Ribombee
Sword: It makes pollen puffs from pollen and nectar. The puffs’ effects depend on the type of ingredients and how much of each one is used.
Shield: Ribombee absolutely hate getting wet or rained on. In the cloudy Galar region, they are very seldom seen.

Rockruff
Sword: This Pokémon can bond very strongly with its Trainer, but it also has a habit of biting. Raising a Rockruff for a long time can be challenging.
Shield: This Pokémon intimidates opponents by striking the ground with the rocks on its neck. The moment an opponent flinches, Rockruff attacks.

Lycanroc (Midday Form)
Sword: This Lycanroc is calm and cautious. The rocks jutting from its mane are razor sharp.
Shield: With swift movements, this Pokémon gradually backs its prey into a corner. Lycanroc’s fangs are always aimed toward opponents’ weak spots.

Lycanroc (Midnight Form)
Sword: This form of Lycanroc is reckless. It charges headlong at its opponents, attacking without any care about what injuries it might receive.
Shield: It's invigorated by powerful opponents–the stronger the better. A full-force headbutt from one of these Lycanroc can shatter giant boulders.

Lycanroc (Dusk Form)
Sword: This form of Lycanroc is normally calm and quiet. Once a battle begins, however, this Pokémon displays a ferocious fighting spirit.
Shield: These Pokémon have both calm and ferocious qualities. Their temperamental nature makes them a difficult species to raise.

Wishiwashi (Solo Form)
Sword: Individually, they’re incredibly weak. It’s by gathering up into schools that they’re able to confront opponents.
Shield: When it senses danger, its eyes tear up. The sparkle of its tears signals other Wishiwashi to gather.

Wishiwashi (School Form)
Sword: On their own, they're very weak. But when Wishiwashi pool their power together in a school, they become a demon of the sea.
Shield: When facing tough opponents, they get into formation. But if they get wounded in battle, they'll scatter and become solitary again.

Mareanie
Sword: The first symptom of its sting is numbness. The next is an itching sensation so intense that it’s impossible to resist the urge to claw at your skin.
Shield: Unlike their Alolan counterparts, the Mareanie of the Galar region have not yet figured out that the branches of Corsola are delicious.

Toxapex
Sword: To survive in the cold waters of Galar, this Pokémon forms a dome with its legs, enclosing its body so it can capture its own body heat.
Shield: Within the poison sac in its body is a poison so toxic that Pokémon as large as Wailord will still be suffering three days after it first takes effect.

Mudbray
Sword: Loads weighing up to 50 times as much as its own body weight pose no issue for this Pokémon. It’s skilled at making use of mud.
Shield: It eats dirt to create mud and smears this mud all over its feet, giving them the grip needed to walk on rough terrain without slipping.

Mudsdale
Sword: Mud that hardens around a Mudsdale’s legs sets harder than stone. It’s so hard that it allows this Pokémon to scrap a truck with a single kick.
Shield: Mudsdale has so much stamina that it could carry over 10 tons across the Galar region without rest or sleep.

Dewpider
Sword: It forms a water bubble at the rear of its body and then covers its head with it. Meeting another Dewpider means comparing water-bubble sizes.
Shield: Dewpider normally lives underwater. When it comes onto land in search of food, it takes water with it in the form of a bubble on its head.

Araquanid
Sword: It launches water bubbles with its legs, drowning prey within the bubbles. This Pokémon can then take its time to savor its meal.
Shield: It acts as a caretaker for Dewpider, putting them inside its bubble and letting them eat any leftover food.

Fomantis
Sword: When bathed in sunlight, this Pokémon emits a pleasantly sweet scent, which causes bug Pokémon to gather around it.
Shield: During the day, Fomantis basks in sunlight and sleeps peacefully. It wakes and moves around at night.

Lurantis
Sword: This Pokémon resembles a beautiful flower. A properly raised Lurantis will have gorgeous, brilliant colors.
Shield: The petals on this Pokémon’s arms are thin and super sharp, and they can fire laser beams if Lurantis gathers light first.

Morelull
Sword: Pokémon living in the forest eat the delicious caps on Morelull’s head. The caps regrow overnight.
Shield: Morelull live in forests that stay dark even during the day. They scatter flickering spores that put enemies to sleep.

Shiinotic
Sword: Its flickering spores lure in prey and put them to sleep. Once this Pokémon has its prey snoozing, it drains their vitality with its fingertips.
Shield: If you see a light deep in a forest at night, don’t go near. Shiinotic will make you fall fast asleep.

Salandit
Sword: Its venom sacs produce a fluid that this Pokémon then heats up with the flame in its tail. This process creates Salandit’s poisonous gas.
Shield: This sneaky Pokémon will slink behind its prey and immobilize it with poisonous gas before the prey even realizes Salandit is there.

Salazzle
Sword: Only female Salazzle exist. They emit a gas laden with pheromones to captivate male Salandit.
Shield: The winner of competitions between Salazzle is decided by which one has the most male Salandit with it.

Stufful
Sword: Its fluffy fur is a delight to pet, but carelessly reaching out to touch this Pokémon could result in painful retaliation.
Shield: The way it protects itself by flailing its arms may be an adorable sight, but stay well away. This is flailing that can snap thick tree trunks.

Bewear
Sword: Once it accepts you as a friend, it tries to show its affection with a hug. Letting it do that is dangerous—it could easily shatter your bones.
Shield: The moves it uses to take down its prey would make a martial artist jealous. It tucks subdued prey under its arms to carry them to its nest.

Bounsweet
Sword: Its body gives off a sweet, fruity scent that is extremely appetizing to bird Pokémon.
Shield: When under attack, it secretes a sweet and delicious sweat. The scent only calls more enemies to it.

Steenee
Sword: As it twirls like a dancer, a sweet smell spreads out around it. Anyone who inhales the scent will feel a surge of happiness.
Shield: Any Corvisquire that pecks at this Pokémon will be greeted with a smack from its sepals followed by a sharp kick.

Tsareena
Sword: This feared Pokémon has long, slender legs and a cruel heart. It shows no mercy as it stomps on its opponents.
Shield: A kick from the hardened tips of this Pokémon’s legs leaves a wound in the opponent’s body and soul that will never heal.

Comfey
Sword: Comfey picks flowers with its vine and decorates itself with them. For some reason, flowers won’t wither once they’re attached to a Comfey.
Shield: These Pokémon smell very nice. All Comfey wear different flowers, so each of these Pokémon has its own individual scent.

Oranguru
Sword: With waves of its fan—made from leaves and its own fur—Oranguru skillfully gives instructions to other Pokémon.
Shield: It knows the forest inside and out. If it comes across a wounded Pokémon, Oranguru will gather medicinal herbs to treat it.

Passimian
Sword: Displaying amazing teamwork, they follow the orders of their boss as they all help out in the search for their favorite berries.
Shield: Passimian live in groups of about 20, with each member performing an assigned role. Through cooperation, the group survives.

Wimpod
Sword: It’s nature’s cleaner—it eats anything and everything, including garbage and rotten things. The ground near its nest is always clean.
Shield: Wimpod gather in swarms, constantly on the lookout for danger. They scatter the moment they detect an enemy’s presence.

Golisopod
Sword: It will do anything to win, taking advantage of every opening and finishing opponents off with the small claws on its front legs.
Shield: They live in sunken ships or in holes in the seabed. When Golisopod and Grapploct battle, the loser becomes the winner’s meal.

Sandygast
Sword: Grudges of the dead have possessed a mound of sand and become a Pokémon. Sandygast is fond of the shovel on its head.
Shield: Sandygast mainly inhabits beaches. It takes control of anyone who puts their hand into its mouth, forcing them to make its body bigger.

Palossand
Sword: Palossand is known as the Beach Nightmare. It pulls its prey down into the sand by controlling the sand itself, and then it sucks out their souls.
Shield: This Pokémon lives on beaches, but it hates water. Palossand can’t maintain its castle-like shape if it gets drenched by a heavy rain.

Pyukumuku
Sword: It lives in warm, shallow waters. If it encounters a foe, it will spit out its internal organs as a means to punch them.
Shield: It’s covered in a slime that keeps its skin moist, allowing it to stay on land for days without drying up.

Type: Null
Sword: Rumor has it that the theft of top-secret research notes led to a new instance of this Pokémon being created in the Galar region.
Shield: It was modeled after a mighty Pokémon of myth. The mask placed upon it limits its power in order to keep it under control.

Silvally
Sword: A solid bond of trust between this Pokémon and its Trainer awakened the strength hidden within Silvally. It can change its type at will.
Shield: The final factor needed to release this Pokémon’s true power was a strong bond with a Trainer it trusts.

Silvally (other types)
Sword: Thanks to its awakened powers, it can change to the ___ type to match the memory it has equipped.
Shield: It has the ability to change its type based on the memory it's holding. This is its ___-type form.

Turtonator
Sword: Explosive substances coat the shell on its back. Enemies that dare attack it will be blown away by an immense detonation.
Shield: Eating sulfur in its volcanic habitat is what causes explosive compounds to develop in its shell. Its droppings are also dangerously explosive.

Togedemaru
Sword: With the long hairs on its back, this Pokémon takes in electricity from other electric Pokémon. It stores what it absorbs in an electric sac.
Shield: When it’s in trouble, it curls up into a ball, makes its fur spikes stand on end, and then discharges electricity indiscriminately.

Mimikyu (Disguised Form)
Sword: It wears a rag fashioned into a Pikachu costume in an effort to look less scary. Unfortunately, the costume only makes it creepier.
Shield: There was a scientist who peeked under Mimikyu’s old rag in the name of research. The scientist died of a mysterious disease.

Mimikyu (Busted Form)
Sword: There will be no forgiveness for any who reveal that it was pretending to be Pikachu. It will bring the culprit down, even at the cost of its own life.
Shield: Its disguise made from an old rag allowed it to avoid an attack, but the impact broke the neck of the disguise. Now everyone knows it's a Mimikyu.

Drampa
Sword: The mountains it calls home are nearly two miles in height. On rare occasions, it descends to play with the children living in the towns below.
Shield: Drampa is a kind and friendly Pokémon—up until it’s angered. When that happens, it stirs up a gale and flattens everything around.

Dhelmise
Sword: After a piece of seaweed merged with debris from a sunken ship, it was reborn as this ghost Pokémon.
Shield: After lowering its anchor, it waits for its prey. It catches large Wailord and drains their life-force.

Jangmo-o
Sword: They learn to fight by smashing their head scales together. The dueling strengthens both their skills and their spirits.
Shield: Jangmo-o strikes its scales to communicate with others of its kind. Its scales are actually fur that’s become as hard as metal.

Hakamo-o
Sword: The scaleless, scarred parts of its body are signs of its strength. It shows them off to defeated opponents.
Shield: Before attacking its enemies, it clashes its scales together and roars. Its sharp claws shred the opposition.

Kommo-o
Sword: It clatters its tail scales to unnerve opponents. This Pokémon will battle only those who stand steadfast in the face of this display.
Shield: Certain ruins have paintings of ancient warriors wearing armor made of Kommo-o scales.

Cosmog
Sword: This Pokémon came from another universe. Its gaseous body is so light that even a gentle breeze can blow it away.
Shield: Cosmog is very curious but not very cautious, often placing itself in danger. If things start to look dicey, it teleports away.

Cosmoem
Sword: The absorption of starlight fuels this Pokémon’s growth. The shell that encases it is harder than any known material.
Shield: It sucks in dust from the air at an astounding rate, frantically building up energy within its core as preparation for evolution.

Solgaleo
Sword: When light radiates from its body, this Pokémon could almost appear to be the sun. It will dispel any darkness and light up the world.
Shield: Solgaleo was once known as the Beast That Devours the Sun. Energy in the form of light radiates boundlessly from it.

Lunala
Sword: Known as the Beast That Calls the Moon, this Pokémon lives by taking in any and all light and converting it into its own energy.
Shield: It steals the light from its surroundings and then becomes the full moon, showering its own light across the night sky.

Necrozma
Sword: It survives by absorbing light. After a long time spent slumbering underground, impurities accumulated within it, causing its body to darken.
Shield: It needs light to survive, and it goes on a rampage seeking it out. Its laser beams will cut anything to pieces.

Dusk Mane Necrozma
Sword: When it dominates Solgaleo, it takes on this form. It's a vicious Pokémon, mangling prey with its many claws—including those on its back.
Shield: Necrozma has attached itself to Solgaleo. It siphons away its host's limitless energy, exploiting that energy to fuel a rampage.

Dawn Wings Necrozma
Sword: Necrozma has subjugated Lunala entirely, forcing the unfortunate Pokémon to emit its light energy for Necrozma to consume.
Shield: When Necrozma latches on to Lunala, it becomes vicious, seeing enemies everywhere it looks. It will burn the world with lasers.

Marshadow
Sword: By slipping into the shadow of a martial arts master and copying their movements, this Pokémon learned the ultimate techniques.
Shield: This Pokémon can conceal itself in any shadow, so it went undiscovered for a long time.

Zeraora
Sword: It runs as fast as lightning strikes, shredding its opponents with its high-voltage claws.
Shield: Electricity sparks from the pads on its limbs. Wherever Zeraora runs, lightning flashes and thunder echoes.

Meltan
Sword: It dissolves and eats metal. Circulating liquid metal within its body is how it generates energy.
Shield: They live as a group, but when the time comes, one strong Meltan will absorb all the others and evolve.

Melmetal
Sword: At the end of its life-span, Melmetal will rust and fall apart. The small shards left behind will eventually be reborn as Meltan.
Shield: Centrifugal force is behind the punches of Melmetal’s heavy hex-nut arms. Melmetal is said to deliver the strongest punches of all Pokémon.

Gigantamax Melmetal
Sword: In a distant land, there are legends about a cyclopean giant. In fact, the giant was a Melmetal that was flooded with Gigantamax energy.
Shield: It can send electric beams streaking out from the hole in its belly. The beams' tremendous energy can vaporize an opponent in one shot.

Grookey
Sword: When it uses its special stick to strike up a beat, the sound waves produced carry revitalizing energy to the plants and flowers in the area.
Shield: It attacks with rapid beats of its stick. As it strikes with amazing speed, it gets more and more pumped.

Thwackey
Sword: The faster a Thwackey can beat out a rhythm with its two sticks, the more respect it wins from its peers.
Shield: When it’s drumming out rapid beats in battle, it gets so caught up in the rhythm that it won’t even notice that it’s already knocked out its opponent.

Rillaboom
Sword: By drumming, it taps into the power of its special tree stump. The roots of the stump follow its direction in battle.
Shield: The one with the best drumming techniques becomes the boss of the troop. It has a gentle disposition and values harmony among its group.

Gigantamax Rillaboom
Sword: Gigantamax energy has caused Rillaboom's stump to grow into a drum set that resembles a forest.
Shield: Rillaboom has become one with its forest of drums and continues to lay down beats that shake all of Galar.

Scorbunny
Sword: A warm-up of running around gets fire energy coursing through this Pokémon’s body. Once that happens, it’s ready to fight at full power.
Shield: It has special pads on the backs of its feet, and one on its nose. Once it’s raring to fight, these pads radiate tremendous heat.

Raboot
Sword: Its thick and fluffy fur protects it from the cold and enables it to use hotter fire moves.
Shield: It kicks berries right off the branches of trees and then juggles them with its feet, practicing its footwork.

Cinderace
Sword: It juggles a pebble with its feet, turning it into a burning soccer ball. Its shots strike opponents hard and leave them scorched.
Shield: It’s skilled at both offense and defense, and it gets pumped up when cheered on. But if it starts showboating, it could put itself in a tough spot.

Gigantamax Cinderace
Sword: Infused with Cinderace's fighting spirit, the gigantic Pyro Ball never misses its targets and completely roasts opponents.
Shield: Gigantamax energy can sometimes cause the diameter of this Pokémon's fireball to exceed 300 feet.

Sobble
Sword: When scared, this Pokémon cries. Its tears pack the chemical punch of 100 onions, and attackers won’t be able to resist weeping.
Shield: When it gets wet, its skin changes color, and this Pokémon becomes invisible as if it were camouflaged.

Drizzile
Sword: A clever combatant, this Pokémon battles using water balloons created with moisture secreted from its palms.
Shield: Highly intelligent but also very lazy, it keeps enemies out of its territory by laying traps everywhere.

Inteleon
Sword: It has many hidden capabilities, such as fingertips that can shoot water and a membrane on its back that it can use to glide through the air.
Shield: Its nictitating membranes let it pick out foes’ weak points so it can precisely blast them with water that shoots from its fingertips at Mach 3.

Gigantamax Inteleon
Sword: Gigantamax Inteleon's Water Gun move fires at Mach 7. As the Pokémon takes aim, it uses the crest on its head to gauge wind and temperature.
Shield: It has excellent sniping skills. Shooting a berry rolling along over nine miles away is a piece of cake for this Pokémon.

Skwovet
Sword: Found throughout the Galar region, this Pokémon becomes uneasy if its cheeks are ever completely empty of berries.
Shield: It eats berries nonstop—a habit that has made it more resilient than it looks. It’ll show up on farms, searching for yet more berries.

Greedent
Sword: It stashes berries in its tail—so many berries that they fall out constantly. But this Pokémon is a bit slow-witted, so it doesn’t notice the loss.
Shield: Common throughout the Galar region, this Pokémon has strong teeth and can chew through the toughest of berry shells.

Rookidee
Sword: It will bravely challenge any opponent, no matter how powerful. This Pokémon benefits from every battle—even a defeat increases its strength a bit.
Shield: Jumping nimbly about, this small-bodied Pokémon takes advantage of even the slightest opportunity to disorient larger opponents.

Corvisquire
Sword: Smart enough to use tools in battle, these Pokémon have been seen picking up rocks and flinging them or using ropes to wrap up enemies.
Shield: The lessons of many harsh battles have taught it how to accurately judge an opponent’s strength.

Corviknight
Sword: This Pokémon reigns supreme in the skies of the Galar region. The black luster of its steel body could drive terror into the heart of any foe.
Shield: With their great intellect and flying skills, these Pokémon very successfully act as the Galar region’s airborne taxi service.

Gigantamax Corviknight
Sword: Imbued with Gigantamax energy, its wings can whip up winds more forceful than any a hurricane could muster. The gusts blow everything away.
Shield: The eight feathers on its back are called blade birds, and they can launch off its body to attack foes independently.

Blipbug
Sword: A constant collector of information, this Pokémon is very smart. Very strong is what it isn’t.
Shield: Often found in gardens, this Pokémon has hairs on its body that it uses to assess its surroundings.

Dottler
Sword: It barely moves, but it’s still alive. Hiding in its shell without food or water seems to have awakened its psychic powers.
Shield: As it grows inside its shell, it uses its psychic abilities to monitor the outside world and prepare for evolution.

Orbeetle
Sword: It’s famous for its high level of intelligence, and the large size of its brain is proof that it also possesses immense psychic power.
Shield: It emits psychic energy to observe and study what’s around it—and what’s around it can include things over six miles away.

Gigantamax Orbeetle
Sword: Its brain has grown to a gargantuan size, as has the rest of its body. This Pokémon's intellect and psychic abilities are overpowering.
Shield: If it were to utilize every last bit of its power, it could control the minds of every living being in its vicinity.

Nickit
Sword: Aided by the soft pads on its feet, it silently raids the food stores of other Pokémon. It survives off its ill-gotten gains.
Shield: Cunning and cautious, this Pokémon survives by stealing food from others. It erases its tracks with swipes of its tail as it makes off with its plunder.

Thievul
Sword: It secretly marks potential targets with a scent. By following the scent, it stalks its targets and steals from them when they least expect it.
Shield: With a lithe body and sharp claws, it goes around stealing food and eggs. Boltund is its natural enemy.

Gossifleur
Sword: It anchors itself in the ground with its single leg, then basks in the sun. After absorbing enough sunlight, its petals spread as it blooms brilliantly.
Shield: It whirls around in the wind while singing a joyous song. This delightful display has charmed many into raising this Pokémon.

Eldegoss
Sword: The seeds attached to its cotton fluff are full of nutrients. It spreads them on the wind so that plants and other Pokémon can benefit from them.
Shield: The cotton on the head of this Pokémon can be spun into a glossy, gorgeous yarn—a Galar regional specialty.

Wooloo
Sword: Its curly fleece is such an effective cushion that this Pokémon could fall off a cliff and stand right back up at the bottom, unharmed.
Shield: If its fleece grows too long, Wooloo won’t be able to move. Cloth made with the wool of this Pokémon is surprisingly strong.

Dubwool
Sword: Weave a carpet from its springy wool, and you end up with something closer to a trampoline. You’ll start to bounce the moment you set foot on it.
Shield: Its majestic horns are meant only to impress the opposite gender. They never see use in battle.

Chewtle
Sword: Apparently the itch of its teething impels it to snap its jaws at anything in front of it.
Shield: It starts off battles by attacking with its rock-hard horn, but as soon as the opponent flinches, this Pokémon bites down and never lets go.

Drednaw
Sword: With jaws that can shear through steel rods, this highly aggressive Pokémon chomps down on its unfortunate prey.
Shield: This Pokémon rapidly extends its retractable neck to sink its sharp fangs into distant enemies and take them down.

Gigantamax Drednaw
Sword: It responded to Gigantamax energy by becoming bipedal. First it comes crashing down on foes, and then it finishes them off with its massive jaws.
Shield: In the Galar region, there's a tale about this Pokémon chewing up a mountain and using the rubble to stop a flood.

Yamper
Sword: This Pokémon is very popular as a herding dog in the Galar region. As it runs, it generates electricity from the base of its tail.
Shield: This gluttonous Pokémon only assists people with their work because it wants treats. As it runs, it crackles with electricity.

Boltund
Sword: This Pokémon generates electricity and channels it into its legs to keep them going strong. Boltund can run nonstop for three full days.
Shield: It sends electricity through its legs to boost their strength. Running at top speed, it easily breaks 50 mph.

Rolycoly
Sword: Most of its body has the same composition as coal. Fittingly, this Pokémon was first discovered in coal mines about 400 years ago.
Shield: It can race around like a unicycle, even on rough, rocky terrain. Burning coal sustains it.

Carkol
Sword: It forms coal inside its body. Coal dropped by this Pokémon once helped fuel the lives of people in the Galar region.
Shield: By rapidly rolling its legs, it can travel at over 18 mph. The temperature of the flames it breathes exceeds 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit.

Coalossal
Sword: It’s usually peaceful, but the vandalism of mines enrages it. Offenders will be incinerated with flames that reach 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shield: While it’s engaged in battle, its mountain of coal will burn bright red, sending off sparks that scorch the surrounding area.

Gigantamax Coalossal
Sword: Its body is a colossal stove. With Gigantamax energy stoking the fire, this Pokémon's flame burns hotter than 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shield: When Galar was hit by a harsh cold wave, this Pokémon served as a giant heating stove and saved many lives.

Applin
Sword: It spends its entire life inside an apple. It hides from its natural enemies, bird Pokémon, by pretending it’s just an apple and nothing more.
Shield: As soon as it’s born, it burrows into an apple. Not only does the apple serve as its food source, but the flavor of the fruit determines its evolution.

Flapple
Sword: It ate a sour apple, and that induced its evolution. In its cheeks, it stores an acid capable of causing chemical burns.
Shield: It flies on wings of apple skin and spits a powerful acid. It can also change its shape into that of an apple.

Gigantamax Flapple
Sword: Under the influence of Gigantamax energy, it produces much more sweet nectar, and its shape has changed to resemble a giant apple.
Shield: If it stretches its neck, the strong aroma of its nectar pours out. The scent is so sickeningly sweet that one whiff makes other Pokémon faint.

Appletun
Sword: Eating a sweet apple caused its evolution. A nectarous scent wafts from its body, luring in the bug Pokémon it preys on.
Shield: Its body is covered in sweet nectar, and the skin on its back is especially yummy. Children used to have it as a snack.

Gigantamax Appletun
Sword: It blasts its opponents with massive amounts of sweet, sticky nectar, drowning them under the deluge.
Shield: Due to Gigantamax energy, this Pokémon's nectar has thickened. The increased viscosity lets the nectar absorb more damage than before.

Silicobra
Sword: As it digs, it swallows sand and stores it in its neck pouch. The pouch can hold more than 17 pounds of sand.
Shield: It spews sand from its nostrils. While the enemy is blinded, it burrows into the ground to hide.

Sandaconda
Sword: When it contracts its body, over 220 pounds of sand sprays from its nose. If it ever runs out of sand, it becomes disheartened.
Shield: Its unique style of coiling allows it to blast sand out of its sand sac more efficiently.

Gigantamax Sandaconda
Sword: Its sand pouch has grown to tremendous proportions. More than 1,000,000 tons of sand now swirl around its body.
Shield: Sand swirls around its body with such speed and power that it could pulverize a skyscraper.

Cramorant
Sword: It’s so strong that it can knock out some opponents in a single hit, but it also may forget what it’s battling midfight.
Shield: This hungry Pokémon swallows Arrokuda whole. Occasionally, it makes a mistake and tries to swallow a Pokémon other than its preferred prey.

Cramorant (Gulping Form)
Sword: Cramorant's gluttony led it to try to swallow an Arrokuda whole, which in turn led to Cramorant getting an Arrokuda stuck in its throat.
Shield: The slightest shock is sometimes enough to get this Pokémon to spit out the Arrokuda lodged in its throat.

Cramorant (Gorging Form)
Sword: This Cramorant has accidentally gotten a Pikachu lodged in its gullet. Cramorant is choking a little, but it isn't really bothered.
Shield: The half-swallowed Pikachu is so startled that it isn't struggling yet, but it's still looking for a chance to strike back.

Arrokuda
Sword: If it sees any movement around it, this Pokémon charges for it straightaway, leading with its sharply pointed jaw. It’s very proud of that jaw.
Shield: After it’s eaten its fill, its movements become extremely sluggish. That’s when Cramorant swallows it up.

Barraskewda
Sword: This Pokémon has a jaw that’s as sharp as a spear and as strong as steel. Apparently Barraskewda’s flesh is surprisingly tasty, too.
Shield: It spins its tail fins to propel itself, surging forward at speeds of over 100 knots before ramming prey and spearing into them.

Toxel
Sword: It stores poison in an internal poison sac and secretes that poison through its skin. If you touch this Pokémon, a tingling sensation follows.
Shield: It manipulates the chemical makeup of its poison to produce electricity. The voltage is weak, but it can cause a tingling paralysis.

Toxtricity (Amped Form)
Sword: When this Pokémon sounds as if it’s strumming a guitar, it’s actually clawing at the protrusions on its chest to generate electricity.
Shield: This short-tempered and aggressive Pokémon chugs stagnant water to absorb any toxins it might contain.

Toxtricity (Low Key Form)
Sword: Capable of generating 15,000 volts of electricity, this Pokémon looks down on all that would challenge it.
Shield: It has an electrical organ on its chest. While generating electricity, it fills its surroundings with what sounds like the strumming of a bass guitar.

Gigantamax Toxtricity
Sword: Its excessive electric energy is its weapon. This Pokémon can build up more electricity than any thundercloud.
Shield: Out of control after its own poison penetrated its brain, it tears across the land in a rampage, contaminating the earth with toxic sweat.

Sizzlipede
Sword: It stores flammable gas in its body and uses it to generate heat. The yellow sections on its belly get particularly hot.
Shield: It wraps prey up with its heated body, cooking them in its coils. Once they’re well-done, it will voraciously nibble them down to the last morsel.

Centiskorch
Sword: When it heats up, its body temperature reaches about 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. It lashes its body like a whip and launches itself at enemies.
Shield: While its burning body is already dangerous on its own, this excessively hostile Pokémon also has large and very sharp fangs.

Gigantamax Centiskorch
Sword: Gigantamax energy has evoked a rise in its body temperature, now reaching over 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit. Its heat waves incinerate its enemies.
Shield: The heat that comes off a Gigantamax Centiskorch may destabilize air currents. Sometimes it can even cause storms.

Clobbopus
Sword: It’s very curious, but its means of investigating things is to try to punch them with its tentacles. The search for food is what brings it onto land.
Shield: Its tentacles tear off easily, but it isn’t alarmed when that happens—it knows they’ll grow back. It’s about as smart as a three-year-old.

Grapploct
Sword: A body made up of nothing but muscle makes the grappling moves this Pokémon performs with its tentacles tremendously powerful.
Shield: Searching for an opponent to test its skills against, it emerges onto land. Once the battle is over, it returns to the sea.

Sinistea (Phony Form)
Sword: This Pokémon is said to have been born when a lonely spirit possessed a cold, leftover cup of tea.
Shield: The teacup in which this Pokémon makes its home is a famous piece of antique tableware. Many forgeries are in circulation.

Sinistea (Antique Form)
Sword: The swirl pattern in this Pokémon's body is its weakness. If it gets stirred, the swirl loses its shape, and Sinistea gets dizzy.
Shield: It absorbs the life-force of those who drink it. It waits patiently, but opportunities are fleeting—it tastes so bad that it gets spat out immediately.

Polteageist (Phony Form)
Sword: This species lives in antique teapots. Most pots are forgeries, but on rare occasions, an authentic work is found.
Shield: Leaving leftover black tea unattended is asking for this Pokémon to come along and pour itself into it, turning the tea into a new Polteageist.

Polteageist (Antique Form)
Sword: Trainers Polteageist trusts will be allowed to experience its distinctive flavor and aroma firsthand by sampling just a tiny bit of its tea.
Shield: When angered, it launches tea from its body at the offender's mouth. The tea causes strong chills if swallowed.

Hatenna
Sword: Via the protrusion on its head, it senses other creatures’ emotions. If you don’t have a calm disposition, it will never warm up to you.
Shield: If this Pokémon senses a strong emotion, it will run away as fast as it can. It prefers areas without people.

Hattrem
Sword: No matter who you are, if you bring strong emotions near this Pokémon, it will silence you violently.
Shield: Using the braids on its head, it pummels foes to get them to quiet down. One blow from those braids would knock out a professional boxer.

Hatterene
Sword: It emits psychic power strong enough to cause headaches as a deterrent to the approach of others.
Shield: If you’re too loud around it, you risk being torn apart by the claws on its tentacle. This Pokémon is also known as the Forest Witch.

Gigantamax Hatterene
Sword: This Pokémon can read the emotions of creatures over 30 miles away. The minute it senses hostility, it goes on the attack.
Shield: Beams like lightning shoot down from its tentacles. It's known to some as the Raging Goddess.

Impidimp
Sword: Through its nose, it sucks in the emanations produced by people and Pokémon when they feel annoyed. It thrives off this negative energy.
Shield: It sneaks into people’s homes, stealing things and feasting on the negative energy of the frustrated occupants.

Morgrem
Sword: When it gets down on all fours as if to beg for forgiveness, it’s trying to lure opponents in so that it can stab them with its spear-like hair.
Shield: With sly cunning, it tries to lure people into the woods. Some believe it to have the power to make crops grow.

Grimmsnarl
Sword: With the hair wrapped around its body helping to enhance its muscles, this Pokémon can overwhelm even Machamp.
Shield: Its hairs work like muscle fibers. When its hairs unfurl, they latch on to opponents, ensnaring them as tentacles would.

Gigantamax Grimmsnarl
Sword: By transforming its leg hair, this Pokémon delivers power-packed drill kicks that can bore huge holes in Galar's terrain.
Shield: Gigantamax energy has caused more hair to sprout all over its body. With the added strength, it can jump over the world's tallest building.

Obstagoon
Sword: Its voice is staggering in volume. Obstagoon has a tendency to take on a threatening posture and shout—this move is known as Obstruct.
Shield: It evolved after experiencing numerous fights. While crossing its arms, it lets out a shout that would make any opponent flinch.

Perrserker
Sword: What appears to be an iron helmet is actually hardened hair. This Pokémon lives for the thrill of battle.
Shield: After many battles, it evolved dangerous claws that come together to form daggers when extended.

Cursola
Sword: Its shell is overflowing with its heightened otherworldly energy. The ectoplasm serves as protection for this Pokémon’s core spirit.
Shield: Be cautious of the ectoplasmic body surrounding its soul. You’ll become stiff as stone if you touch it.

Sirfetch’d
Sword: Only Farfetch’d that have survived many battles can attain this evolution. When this Pokémon’s leek withers, it will retire from combat.
Shield: After deflecting attacks with its hard leaf shield, it strikes back with its sharp leek stalk. The leek stalk is both weapon and food.

Mr. Rime
Sword: It’s highly skilled at tap-dancing. It waves its cane of ice in time with its graceful movements.
Shield: Its amusing movements make it very popular. It releases its psychic power from the pattern on its belly.

Runerigus
Sword: A powerful curse was woven into an ancient painting. After absorbing the spirit of a Yamask, the painting began to move.
Shield: Never touch its shadowlike body, or you’ll be shown the horrific memories behind the picture carved into it.

Milcery
Sword: This Pokémon was born from sweet-smelling particles in the air. Its body is made of cream.
Shield: They say that any patisserie visited by Milcery is guaranteed success and good fortune.

Alcremie (Vanilla Cream)
Sword: When it trusts a Trainer, it will treat them to berries it’s decorated with cream.
Shield: When Alcremie is content, the cream it secretes from its hands becomes sweeter and richer.

Alcremie (Ruby Cream)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a sweet and tart flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a sweet and tart flavor.

Alcremie (Matcha Cream)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on an aromatic flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream an aromatic flavor.

Alcremie (Mint Cream)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a refreshing flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a refreshing flavor.

Alcremie (Lemon Cream)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a sour flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a sour flavor.

Alcremie (Salted Cream)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a salty flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a salty flavor.

Alcremie (Ruby Swirl)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a mixed flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a mixed flavor.

Alcremie (Caramel Swirl)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a bitter flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a bitter flavor.

Alcremie (Rainbow Swirl)
Sword: The moment it evolved, it took on a complex flavor. This is because of the way its cells spontaneously shifted during evolution.
Shield: The cells that compose its cream fluctuated suddenly during evolution, giving the cream a complex flavor.

Gigantamax Alcremie
Sword: Cream pours endlessly from this Pokémon's body. The cream stiffens when compressed by an impact. A harder impact results in harder cream.
Shield: It launches swarms of missiles, each made of cream and loaded with 100,000 kilocalories. Get hit by one of these, and your head will swim.

Falinks
Sword: Five of them are troopers, and one is the brass. The brass’s orders are absolute.
Shield: The six of them work together as one Pokémon. Teamwork is also their battle strategy, and they constantly change their formation as they fight.

Pincurchin
Sword: It feeds on seaweed, using its teeth to scrape it off rocks. Electric current flows from the tips of its spines.
Shield: It stores electricity in each spine. Even if one gets broken off, it still continues to emit electricity for at least three hours.

Snom
Sword: It spits out thread imbued with a frigid sort of energy and uses it to tie its body to branches, disguising itself as an icicle while it sleeps.
Shield: It eats snow that piles up on the ground. The more snow it eats, the bigger and more impressive the spikes on its back grow.

Frosmoth
Sword: Icy scales fall from its wings like snow as it flies over fields and mountains. The temperature of its wings is less than −290 degrees Fahrenheit.
Shield: It shows no mercy to any who desecrate fields and mountains. It will fly around on its icy wings, causing a blizzard to chase offenders away.

Stonjourner
Sword: It stands in grasslands, watching the sun’s descent from zenith to horizon. This Pokémon has a talent for delivering dynamic kicks.
Shield: Once a year, on a specific date and at a specific time, they gather out of nowhere and form up in a circle.

Eiscue (Ice Face)
Sword: It drifted in on the flow of ocean waters from a frigid place. It keeps its head iced constantly to make sure it stays nice and cold.
Shield: This Pokémon keeps its heat-sensitive head cool with ice. It fishes for its food, dangling its single hair into the sea to lure in prey.

Eiscue (Noice Face)
Sword: The ice covering this Pokémon's face has shattered, revealing a slightly worried expression that many people are enamored with.
Shield: The hair on its head connects to the surface of its brain. When this Pokémon has something on its mind, its hair chills the air around it.

Indeedee (Male)
Sword: It uses the horns on its head to sense the emotions of others. Males will act as valets for those they serve, looking after their every need.
Shield: Through its horns, it can pick up on the emotions of creatures around it. Positive emotions are the source of its strength.

Indeedee (Female)
Sword: These intelligent Pokémon touch horns with each other to share information between them.
Shield: They diligently serve people and Pokémon so they can gather feelings of gratitude. The females are particularly good at babysitting.

Morpeko (Full Belly Mode)
Sword: As it eats the seeds stored up in its pocket-like pouches, this Pokémon is not just satisfying its constant hunger. It’s also generating electricity.
Shield: It carries electrically roasted seeds with it as if they’re precious treasures. No matter how much it eats, it always gets hungry again in short order.

Morpeko (Hangry Mode)
Sword: Intense hunger drives it to extremes of violence, and the electricity in its cheek sacs has converted into a Dark-type energy.
Shield: Hunger hormones affect its temperament. Until its hunger is appeased, it gets up to all manner of evil deeds.

Cufant
Sword: It digs up the ground with its trunk. It’s also very strong, being able to carry loads of over five tons without any problem at all.
Shield: If a job requires serious strength, this Pokémon will excel at it. Its copper body tarnishes in the rain, turning a vibrant green color.

Copperajah
Sword: They came over from another region long ago and worked together with humans. Their green skin is resistant to water.
Shield: These Pokémon live in herds. Their trunks have incredible grip strength, strong enough to crush giant rocks into powder.

Gigantamax Copperajah
Sword: So much power is packed within its trunk that if it were to unleash that power, the resulting blast could level mountains and change the landscape.
Shield: After this Pokémon has Gigantamaxed, its massive nose can utterly demolish large structures with a single smashing blow.

Dracozolt
Sword: In ancient times, it was unbeatable thanks to its powerful lower body, but it went extinct anyway after it depleted all its plant-based food sources.
Shield: The powerful muscles in its tail generate its electricity. Compared to its lower body, its upper half is entirely too small.

Arctozolt
Sword: The shaking of its freezing upper half is what generates its electricity. It has a hard time walking around.
Shield: This Pokémon lived on prehistoric seashores and was able to preserve food with the ice on its body. It went extinct because it moved so slowly.

Dracovish
Sword: Powerful legs and jaws made it the apex predator of its time. Its own overhunting of its prey was what drove it to extinction.
Shield: Its mighty legs are capable of running at speeds exceeding 40 mph, but this Pokémon can’t breathe unless it’s underwater.

Arctovish
Sword: Though it’s able to capture prey by freezing its surroundings, it has trouble eating the prey afterward because its mouth is on top of its head.
Shield: The skin on its face is impervious to attack, but breathing difficulties made this Pokémon go extinct anyway.

Duraludon
Sword: Its body resembles polished metal, and it’s both lightweight and strong. The only drawback is that it rusts easily.
Shield: The special metal that composes its body is very light, so this Pokémon has considerable agility. It lives in caves because it dislikes the rain.

Gigantamax Duraludon
Sword: It's grown to resemble a skyscraper. Parts of its towering body glow due to a profusion of energy.
Shield: The hardness of its cells is exceptional, even among Steel types. It also has a body structure that's resistant to earthquakes.

Dreepy
Sword: After being reborn as a ghost Pokémon, Dreepy wanders the areas it used to inhabit back when it was alive in prehistoric seas.
Shield: If this weak Pokémon is by itself, a mere child could defeat it. But if Dreepy has friends to help it train, it can evolve and become much stronger.

Drakloak
Sword: It’s capable of flying faster than 120 mph. It battles alongside Dreepy and dotes on them until they successfully evolve.
Shield: Without a Dreepy to place on its head and care for, it gets so uneasy it’ll try to substitute any Pokémon it finds for the missing Dreepy.

Dragapult
Sword: When it isn’t battling, it keeps Dreepy in the holes on its horns. Once a fight starts, it launches the Dreepy like supersonic missiles.
Shield: Apparently the Dreepy inside Dragapult’s horns eagerly look forward to being launched out at Mach speeds.

Zacian (Hero of Many Battles)
Sword: Known as a legendary hero, this Pokémon absorbs metal particles, transforming them into a weapon it uses to battle.
Shield: This Pokémon has slumbered for many years. Some say it’s Zamazenta’s elder sister—others say the two Pokémon are rivals.

Zacian (Crowned Sword)
Sword: Now armed with a weapon it used in ancient times, this Pokémon needs only a single strike to fell even Gigantamax Pokémon.
Shield: Able to cut down anything with a single strike, it became known as the Fairy King's Sword, and it inspired awe in friend and foe alike.

Zamazenta (Hero of Many Battles)
Sword: In times past, it worked together with a king of the people to save the Galar region. It absorbs metal that it then uses in battle.
Shield: This Pokémon slept for aeons while in the form of a statue. It was asleep for so long, people forgot that it ever existed.

Zamazenta (Crowned Shield)
Sword: Its ability to deflect any attack led to it being known as the Fighting Master's Shield. It was feared and respected by all.
Shield: Now that it's equipped with its shield, it can shrug off impressive blows, including the attacks of Dynamax Pokémon.

Eternatus
Sword: The core on its chest absorbs energy emanating from the lands of the Galar region. This energy is what allows Eternatus to stay active.
Shield: It was inside a meteorite that fell 20,000 years ago. There seems to be a connection between this Pokémon and the Dynamax phenomenon.

Eternamax Eternatus
Sword: As a result of Rose's meddling, Eternatus absorbed all the energy in the Galar region. It's now in a state of power overload.
Shield: Infinite amounts of energy pour from this Pokémon's enlarged core, warping the surrounding space-time.

Kubfu
Sword: Kubfu trains hard to perfect its moves. The moves it masters will determine which form it takes when it evolves.
Shield: If Kubfu pulls the long white hair on its head, its fighting spirit heightens and power wells up from the depths of its belly.

Urshifu (Single Strike Style)
Sword: This form of Urshifu is a strong believer in the one-hit KO. Its strategy is to leap in close to foes and land a devastating blow with a hardened fist.
Shield: Inhabiting the mountains of a distant region, this Pokémon races across sheer cliffs, training its legs and refining its moves.

Urshifu (Rapid Strike Style)
Sword: It's believed that this Pokémon modeled its fighting style on the flow of a river—sometimes rapid, sometimes calm.
Shield: This form of Urshifu is a strong believer in defeating foes by raining many blows down on them. Its strikes are nonstop, flowing like a river.

Urshifu (Gigantamax Single Strike Style)
Sword: People call it the embodiment of rage. It's said that this Pokémon's terrifying expression and shout will rid the world of malevolence.
Shield: The energy released by this Pokémon's fists forms shock waves that can blow away Dynamax Pokémon in just one hit.

Urshifu (Gigantamax Rapid Strike Style)
Sword: As it waits for the right moment to unleash its Gigantamax power, this Pokémon maintains a perfect one-legged stance. It won't even twitch.
Shield: All it takes is a glare from this Pokémon to take the lives of those with evil in their hearts—or so they say.

Zarude
Sword: Within dense forests, this Pokémon lives in a pack with others of its kind. It’s incredibly aggressive, and the other Pokémon of the forest fear it.
Shield: Once the vines on Zarude’s body tear off, they become nutrients in the soil. This helps the plants of the forest grow.

Zarude (Dada)
Sword: This Zarude left its pack to raise a human child. The cloth Zarude would wrap the child with has a comforting scent that calmed the child's crying.
Shield: This Zarude's special strength stems from its love and care for an orphaned human child that the Pokémon has raised since the child's infancy.

Regieleki
Sword: This Pokémon is a cluster of electrical energy. It’s said that removing the rings on Regieleki’s body will unleash the Pokémon’s latent power.
Shield: Its entire body is made up of a single organ that generates electrical energy. Regieleki is capable of creating all Galar’s electricity.

Regidrago
Sword: An academic theory proposes that Regidrago’s arms were once the head of an ancient dragon Pokémon. The theory remains unproven.
Shield: Its body is composed of crystallized dragon energy. Regidrago is said to have the powers of every dragon Pokémon.

Glastrier
Sword: Glastrier emits intense cold from its hooves. It’s also a belligerent Pokémon—anything it wants, it takes by force.
Shield: Glastrier has tremendous physical strength, and the mask of ice covering its face is 100 times harder than diamond.

Spectrier
Sword: It probes its surroundings with all its senses save one—it doesn’t use its sense of sight. Spectrier’s kicks are said to separate soul from body.
Shield: As it dashes through the night, Spectrier absorbs the life-force of sleeping creatures. It craves silence and solitude.

Calyrex
Sword: Calyrex is a merciful Pokémon, capable of providing healing and blessings. It reigned over the Galar region in times of yore.
Shield: Calyrex is known in legend as a king that ruled over Galar in ancient times. It has the power to cause hearts to mend and plants to spring forth.

Ice Rider Calyrex
Sword: According to lore, this Pokémon showed no mercy to those who got in its way, yet it would heal its opponents' wounds after battle.
Shield: It's said that this Pokémon once moved a large forest—and all the Pokémon living there—to a new location overnight.

Shadow Rider Calyrex
Sword: It's said that Calyrex and a Pokémon that had bonded with it ran all across the Galar region to bring green to the wastelands.
Shield: Legend says that by using its power to see all events from past to future, this Pokémon saved the creatures of a forest from a meteorite strike.
